© Random Forest LLC, 2022. All rights
reserved.

Some of the essays in this book are adapted
from material I originally published on the A
Cloud Guru blog. Used with permission.

This book contains numerous links to
third-party internet resources, which were valid
at the time of publication but could disappear at
any time. If you find a dead link, please feel
free to drop me a line at
forrest@goodtechthings.com so I can correct it.

1



Table of Contents
How to use this book (Don't skip this part) 9

Prologue: The greatest resume I've ever
seen 14

Part 1: Cracking the Cloud Resume
Challenge 23

The challenge itself 24
Why does the Cloud Resume Challenge
work? 30
Breaking down the challenge 36
Community resources 40

The Cloud Resume Challenge Discord
Server 41
The Cloud Resume Challenge GitHub
Repository 41
The Cloud Resume Challenge Video
Tutorials 41
The Challenge in Spanish 42
More AWS Challenges 42

Part 2: Challenge walkthrough 44
Setup and safety (before you begin) 45

Access and credentials 45
The original way (if you must) 46

2



The professional way (my
recommendation) 47

Billing 50
Cloud hygiene 52

Chunk 0: Certification prep 54
How to approach this chunk 54
Helpful resources 58

Paid resources 59
Free resources 60

Mods 60
DevOps Mod: If you have several
years of existing IT experience 60
Security Mod: If you want a cloud
security job 61
Developer Mod: If you want to
become a cloud developer 62
Developer Mod: If you are about to
graduate from college with a
computer science-y degree 62

Stacy's story: From IT Service Desk
Manager to Cloud Operations Engineer
62
Pause to reflect 65

Chunk 1: Building the front end 66
How to approach this chunk 67
Helpful resources 70

3



HTML / CSS 70
Static website tutorials 71
DNS and CDNs 71
Actual CRC sites 72

Jerry's story: From respiratory therapist
to Associate Solutions Architect at AWS
72
Mods 75

Developer Mod: Frame Job 75
DevOps Mod: Automation Nation 75
Security Mod: Spoof Troop 77

Pause to reflect 78
Chunk 2: Building the API 79

How to approach this chunk 80
Helpful resources 85

Python 85
APIs 86
AWS serverless 87
Source control 87

Jakob's Story: From Clinical Research
Technician to Cloud Engineer 87
Mods 88

Developer Mod: Schemas and
Dreamers 88
DevOps Mod: Monitor Lizard 89

4



Part 1: Establishing metrics 90
Part 2: Getting notified 91

Security Mod: Check Your Privilege
92

Pause to reflect 94
Chunk 3: Front-end / back-end integration
95

How to approach this chunk 96
How to write your very own smoke
test 96

Helpful resources 99
Mods 100

Developer Mod: Playing the Hits 100
DevOps Mod: Browser Up 101
Security Mod: Wall of Fire 101

Pause to reflect 102
Nana's Story: From Tech Support to
Cloud Native Engineer 103

Chunk 4: Automation / CI 106
How to approach this chunk 107

AWS-specific infrastructure-as-code
tools 109

CloudFormation 109
The CDK 109

5



Other infrastructure-as-code tools
109

Terraform 109
Pulumi 110

Setting up your deployment pipeline
111

Helpful resources 112
Mods 113

Developer Mod / Security Mod:
Chain Reaction 113

Initial reading 114
Challenge steps 115

DevOps Mod: All The World's A
Stage 117

Stephanie's Story: From Bank Manager
to Cloud Engineer 121
Pause to reflect 122

Chunk 5: The blog … and beyond 124
How to approach this chunk 124

Include a diagram 126
Make it about you, not about the
challenge 126
Consider focusing on your mods 127
Don't ramble on 128
Tag me 128

6



Ian's Story: Writing a Blog That Gets
Exposure 129

Helpful resources 131
Pause to reflect 132

Part 3: From challenge to career 133
What is a "cloud job", anyway? 135

The history of the cloud job 136
The first IT jobs 136
The "golden age" of IT: everybody
has their own servers! 136
The emergence of the cloud job 140

What does a "day in the life" look like for
a cloud engineer? 143
Is there actually such a thing as an
"entry-level cloud job"? 145

Getting unstuck: the underrated skill of
asking for help 148

What NOT to do: The Well of Despair
150
Three steps to get back on track 150

The career-changing art of reading the docs
156

Reading docs: the wrong way and the
right way 158
What do I get out of all this? 167

7



Mapping your path to a cloud job 170
Getting hired without tech experience
170

Building your skill stack 172
When to apply 174

Getting hired with IT experience, but no
cloud experience 176

Exploiting your "unfair advantage"
177
Avoiding a temporary step back 180

How to effectively interview for work with a
portfolio site 182

The three questions interviewers
ultimately want you to answer 182
How to show off your portfolio site
during interviews 184
Reminder: Interviews are two-way
streets 187
Tech takes a backseat to company
culture and learning 188

Networking your way to a job 191
Resume Roulette: a losing game 191
How hiring happens 192
Network Bets: a better game 193
Owning your credibility 194
Building connections 195

8



But I’m an introvert … I can’t network!
196
Play the long game – it’s a shortcut 200

Afterword: The side project that made the
front page 202

Anatomy of the perfect cloud project 204
Paying it forward 207

Acknowledgements 210

9



How to use this book (Don't
skip this part)

You will not get the most out of the Cloud
Resume Challenge Guidebook if you just read
it straight through. It's designed to accompany
your hands-on learning.

This book has three main sections. In the first
section, I give you some background about the
Cloud Resume Challenge and break down the
challenge into six smaller "chunks", which I
propose tackling over six weeks.

These chunks are designed to be
independently valuable as standalone
mini-projects; if you quit after 2 chunks, 3
chunks, 4 chunks, or 5 chunks, you'll still have
built something useful and interesting that you
can talk about in a job interview or use as an
entry point for future learning. There are many
paths to a cloud career, and it's completely
okay to use just part of the Cloud Resume
Challenge to fill a gap or spur further
exploration.

10



But if you're new to cloud, you should continue
on to the second, longer section of the book,
where we walk through each chunk in detail. I'll
give you a bunch of preparatory reading
suggestions to help you get your head around
the new concepts introduced in each section.
I'll give you some pointers and hints on how to
tackle each chunk of work.

Perhaps most importantly, each chunk includes
"mods" at the end - extensions you can make
to the core challenge project in order to
practice key skills. These mods come in three
flavors:

● Developer Mods
● DevOps Mods
● Security Mods

I would suggest picking one set of mods to add
on as you proceed through the book,
depending on what kind of cloud job you are
looking for. For example, if you do the security
mods, by the end of the challenge you will
have gained additional hands-on experience
with secure DNS, least privilege access, API
security, and secure software supply chains -
all great discussion topics for a cloud security
job interview.

11



What I will NOT do in this section is give you
step-by-step "click here, then run this
command"-style instructions for how to
complete the challenge. Don't worry - even with
the additional resources and guidance you'll
find in these pages, the learning will still come
from you!

The third and final section of the book, which
you can read at any time, comprises six essays
(corresponding to the six challenge chunks)
that provide deeper advice on how to leverage
your work on the challenge toward a
successful cloud career.

The book contains links to many of what I
consider to be the finest learning resources in
the cloud world, some of which are true hidden
gems you won't see recommended
everywhere; you need to follow these links, do
the exercises, and play with the interactive
environments. You need to do the mods, not
just read about them. The Cloud Resume
Challenge isn't about passively consuming
information. You truly will get out of it what you
put into it.

12



Now since I wrote this book to help you get a
job in IT, it's only fair that we conclude this
section with a nod to horror master Stephen
King: the author of perhaps the most famous
book written about IT.

(checks notes) Oh, that book is called "It"?
Never mind.

But King did write another wonderful book
about his own specialty, the craft of writing. On
Writing - a book that I highly recommend, even
for people who don't want to become
professional novelists - is only incidentally
about how to structure good sentences and
craft a compelling plot. It's mostly about King's
personal journey.

King had no Ivy League pedigree or wealthy
connections. He worked in a laundry and wrote
at nights in his doublewide trailer, filling
wastebaskets with rejected story scraps until
finally he made it big. Stephen King's talents
are unique, but On Writing has played a key
role in the development of thousands of other
successful writers because King helps you see
a path through the slog of rejection and
setbacks to the happy ending - he makes you

13



believe that success is possible, as long as you
just don't give up.

And that's the final thing this book (call it On
Getting a Cloud Job) is designed to do.
Throughout, I've included stories from Cloud
Resume Challengers who've gone on to start
new careers in the cloud - some from older
forms of IT, others from completely non-tech
backgrounds like plumbing and HR. These
stories are real, but they're not unique. They've
inspired me, and I hope they'll inspire you, too,
when you're up working late at night. I hope
they'll help you see that if you put in the work,
your cloud future is 100% attainable. And it all
starts by building something real.

So on that note, let's begin our journey by
meeting an unusual young man named Daniel
Singletary.

14



Prologue: The greatest
resume I've ever seen

When COVID-19 hit, Daniel Singletary was
already pretty much fed up with his job. As a
commercial and residential plumber in metro
Atlanta, he pulled 11-hour days working some
of the dirtiest, stinkiest problems in the country.

Take, for example, the day he got a call about
an unexplained odor in a suburban shopping
strip. Daniel and a coworker headed to the
scene. There was no mistaking the smell. It
was sewage, and it was raw.

On a reconnaissance trip to the restrooms,
Daniel noticed something odd: a current of air
was flowing around the base of the toilets.
When he levered a commode off the floor, he
staggered backwards, hit by a blast of noxious
wind. "Imagine," he wrote later, "a leaf blower
blowing sewer gas in your face." Not only is
this unusual, it shouldn't even be possible.
Sewer pipes don't blow air. And yet somehow,
this entire shopping strip was passing gas.

15



There was nothing to do but work the problem
step by step. Over the next three days, Daniel
and his partner worked over the building from
opposite ends, unsealing and re-fitting every
plumbing fixture they could find. Eventually,
they narrowed the source of the mystery
airflow down to two possible locations: a hair
salon and a restaurant.

This is where the problem got extra tricky. How
do you troubleshoot the plumbing in a
restaurant without, you know, closing down the
restaurant? Eventually Daniel had a bright
idea: a smoke test. Literally. Up to the roof
vents he went, armed with smoke bombs.  His
reasoning: "Wherever sewer odor can get in,
so can smoke … except we can see smoke
with a flashlight."

Sure enough, following the clouds of smoke
cleared up the mystery. Someone had tied the
vent hood for the restaurant's stove into the
sewer system, forcing air into the pipes. The
immediate problem might be solved, but
Daniel's desire to leave plumbing, maybe even
to a job where he could choose what to smell,
was only growing.

16



It was around this time that Daniel and I met.
His roommate, an IT worker, had shown him a
blog post I wrote about something called the
Cloud Resume Challenge. The challenge was
designed to help people get their first job in
cloud. It came with a promise: host your
resume in the cloud, and I'll do whatever I can
to help you get it in front of the right people.

Of course, there were some caveats. Your
resume had to have an intro-level AWS
certification on it. And the project spec required
you to get your hands dirty with source control,
CI/CD, Python, front-end Javascript, back-end
cloud services, and more - the full cloud stack.
Basically, if you could pull off this project, you'd
be doing things that even some professional
cloud engineers have never done.

Daniel wasn't a professional cloud engineer.
He'd never even seen YAML before. So he did
the first thing that occurred to him: he went out
and bought a whiteboard. He called what he
drew there to help him make sense of the
project an "engineered print," just like he'd
used countless times as a plumber. He didn't
know he was drawing a cloud architecture
diagram.

17



Daniel's whiteboard (courtesy of Daniel
Singletary)

Over the weeks that followed, Daniel forced
himself to sit down at his computer after those
11-hour days. He grappled with Python and
Javascript in the back of his work truck. One
minute he was wrangling sewer pipelines - the
next minute, CI/CD pipelines.

18



Let's not ask what's on his shirt. (Courtesy of
Daniel Singletary)

Finally, miraculously, he completed the
challenge. I reviewed his code myself; it was
solid. And you can check out his resume page
for yourself. It's not flashy, but it contains
probably the greatest combination of

19



credentials I've ever seen. Daniel is licensed in
backflow prevention, journeyman plumbing,
residential / commercial septic installation …
and oh yeah, he's earned four certifications on
AWS.

One of the most important requirements of the
challenge is to write a blog post about your
learnings. Daniel's post, A Plumber's Guide to
Cloud, went viral on LinkedIn and was shared
more than 200,000 times. That got the
attention of hiring managers.

And barely a month later, he started his first
tech job as a cloud DevOps engineer. From all
reports, he's killing it.

Now, to be clear, Daniel's success didn't come
from some magic contained in the Cloud
Resume Challenge. It came from Daniel. It
came from his hard work, his perseverance,
and (just as importantly) from the skills he'd
mastered in his plumbing days.

For instance, if I'm a hiring manager on an
infrastructure ops team, I'm taking away quite a
few things from Daniel's story of the leaf-blower
sewer:

20



He knows how to troubleshoot.
Given a fairly enormous problem (this entire
building stinks), Daniel didn't flail around or try
random stopgap measures. He narrowed the
problem down to a root cause (the blowing air)
and then methodically eliminated possibilities
until he found the solution.

He knows how to collaborate.
Daniel worked closely with a colleague
throughout the onsite engagement, dividing
and conquering to speed up the "debugging"
process. Pair programming will feel natural to
Daniel because he's used to having a sounding
board to work out complex problems.

He knows how to test and observe.
Until I met Daniel, I actually didn't know that
"smoke testing" was a term with a literal
smoke-related meaning. I'd always heard it
used in the context of software tests. Daniel
used a tracing technique to follow a problem to
its source, instead of just making random
guesses.

He understands business continuity.
Daniel had to keep several businesses online
and operational while conducting his
diagnostics and resolving the problem. He

21



couldn't simply flip a switch and cut the
building's water supply for a few days while he
figured out what was happening.

Put simply, Daniel had rock-solid real-world ops
skills, better than that of most university
computer science graduates I've met. What the
Cloud Resume Challenge did was fast-track
Daniel to the hands-on technical abilities he
needed to build on that wealth of trade
experience and vault into the cloud.

Daniel's story is unique, but he's not alone.
Over the past two years, thousands of people
have attempted the Cloud Resume Challenge.
The majority of them don't get far; it's not easy,
that's what makes it worth doing.

But those who persevere have seen incredible
results. Career-changers have made the jump
to cloud jobs from fields as diverse as food
service, HR, retail, and recruiting. And even
more people have used the challenge to polish
up their existing IT skills and leverage better
jobs within the industry.

You'll hear many of their stories in this book.
Like them, you bring skills and perspectives
that the tech industry needs. And if you commit

22



to follow the path I'm about to show you,
there's no limit to what you can achieve.

Ready? Let's do this.

23



Part 1: Cracking the Cloud
Resume Challenge

24



In April 2020, as the first wave of COVID-19
descended, I found myself like millions of other
people around the world: stuck at home,
feeling bored and helpless.

I did have one huge privilege, though. As a
tech worker, I could still do my job from home.
Friends and family were telling me: "I've been
thinking about changing careers and going into
IT. Maybe doing something in the cloud, like
you. Where should I start?"

I started jotting down some ideas: a blueprint, a
roadmap of key cloud skills. Things that would
make me say "Of course I'd hire that person!",
never mind their previous work experience.
What emerged a few days later would change
a whole bunch of lives, starting with my own.

The challenge itself
Here are the sixteen steps of the original Cloud
Resume Challenge, more or less as they first
appeared in my "Cloud Irregular" newsletter on
April 27th, 2020.

1. Certification
Your resume needs to have the AWS Cloud
Practitioner certification on it. This is an

25



introductory certification that orients you on the
industry-leading AWS cloud – if you have a
more advanced AWS cert, or a cert on a
different cloud, that’s fine but not expected. No
cheating: include the validation code on the
resume. You can sit the CCP exam online for
$100 USD. If that cost is a dealbreaker for you,
let me know and I’ll see if I can help. A Cloud
Guru offers exam prep resources.

2. HTML
Your resume needs to be written in HTML. Not
a Word doc, not a PDF. Here is an example of
what I mean.

3. CSS
Your resume needs to be styled with CSS. No
worries if you’re not a designer – neither am I.
It doesn’t have to be fancy. But we need to see
something other than raw HTML when we
open the webpage.

4. Static S3 Website
Your HTML resume should be deployed online
as an Amazon S3 static website. Services like
Netlify and GitHub Pages are great and I would
normally recommend them for personal static
site deployments, but they make things a little
too abstract for our purposes here. Use S3.

26



5. HTTPS
The S3 website URL should use HTTPS for
security. You will need to use Amazon
CloudFront to help with this.

6. DNS
Point a custom DNS domain name to the
CloudFront distribution, so your resume can be
accessed at something like
my-c00l-resume-website.com. You can
use Amazon Route 53 or any other DNS
provider for this. A domain name usually costs
about ten bucks to register.

7. Javascript
Your resume webpage should include a visitor
counter that displays how many people have
accessed the site. You will need to write a bit of
Javascript to make this happen. Here is a
helpful tutorial to get you started in the right
direction.

8. Database
The visitor counter will need to retrieve and
update its count in a database somewhere. I
suggest you use Amazon’s DynamoDB for this.
(Use on-demand pricing for the database and
you’ll pay essentially nothing, unless you store

27



or retrieve much more data than this project
requires.) Here is a great free course on
DynamoDB.

9. API
Do not communicate directly with DynamoDB
from your Javascript code. Instead, you will
need to create an API that accepts requests
from your web app and communicates with the
database. I suggest using AWS’s API Gateway
and Lambda services for this. They will be free
or close to free for what we are doing.

10. Python
You will need to write a bit of code in the
Lambda function; you could use more
Javascript, but it would be better for our
purposes to explore Python – a common
language used in back-end programs and
scripts – and its boto3 library for AWS. Here is
a good, free Python tutorial.

11. Tests
You should also include some tests for your
Python code. Here are some resources on
writing good Python tests.

12. Infrastructure as Code

28



You should not be configuring your API
resources – the DynamoDB table, the API
Gateway, the Lambda function – manually, by
clicking around in the AWS console. Instead,
define them in an AWS Serverless Application
Model (SAM) template and deploy them using
the AWS SAM CLI. This is called “infrastructure
as code” or IaC. It saves you time in the long
run.

13. Source Control
You do not want to be updating either your
back-end API or your front-end website by
making calls from your laptop, though. You
want them to update automatically whenever
you make a change to the code. (This is called
continuous integration and deployment, or
CI/CD.) Create a GitHub repository for your
backend code.

14. CI/CD (Back end)
Set up GitHub Actions such that when you
push an update to your Serverless Application
Model template or Python code, your Python
tests get run. If the tests pass, the SAM
application should get packaged and deployed
to AWS.

15. CI/CD (Front end)

29



Create a second GitHub repository for your
website code. Create GitHub Actions such that
when you push new website code, the S3
bucket automatically gets updated. (You may
need to invalidate your CloudFront cache in the
code as well.) Important note: DO NOT commit
AWS credentials to source control! Bad hats
will find them and use them against you!

16. Blog post
Finally, in the text of your resume, you should
link a short blog post describing some things
you learned while working on this project.
Dev.to is a great place to publish if you don’t
have your own blog.

30



Why does the Cloud Resume
Challenge work?
Unlike most technical resources you'll find, the
Cloud Resume Challenge isn't a tutorial or a
how-to guide. It's a project spec, and not a very
helpful one at that. It tells you what the
outcome of the project should be, and provides
enough structure that you don't go too far off
the rails, but other than that  - you're on your
own!

At first glance, this seems like kind of a mean
thing to hand someone with no previous IT
experience. Wouldn't beginners need their
hands held every step of the way? And so my
initial vision, that the challenge would help
people get their first job in tech, was greeted
with skepticism:

31



Not picking on Cesar here, but it would have
been smart to take the over on his prediction.

A year later, thousands of people have
attempted the challenge. Hundreds have
completed it. Dozens have been hired into their
first cloud jobs, from fields as diverse as
banking, plumbing, recruiting, and HR. Never
bet against raw human determination when
dollars are on the line.

I didn't choose the challenge format arbitrarily,
though. I designed it after some of the best
learning experiences I've ever had: the
capstone projects in my college and
graduate-level computer science classes.

No, I'm not saying you need a master's degree
in computer science to get a job in cloud. But
good university classes gave me a gift,
something most vocational training courses
haven't adopted: open-ended projects that told
me roughly the direction to go, then forced me
to figure out how to achieve the objective as I
went along. Because I wasn't just carrying out
rote instructions, the learning wasn't
pre-digested. The learning came from me.

32



Looking back, most of the good learning I had
in college came from those types of projects.
And whether or not you have a degree
background, I want to give you that experience
as well.

The biggest surprise to me has actually been
not how many career-changers have tried the
challenge, but how many working engineers
have given it a shot. Here is a breakdown of
prior experience as reported by the 4000-plus
community members in the Cloud Resume
Challenge Discord server:

Number of years of prior professional IT /
software development experience by
challenge participants

That's right - almost 40% of challengers are
coming into this with more than 3 years of
professional IT experience. It turns out there
are good reasons (wholly unanticipated by me)

33



why the Cloud Resume Challenge has value
for people well-established in their tech
careers, and we'll get into that later.

But for now, just think of it this way: if the end
result of the Cloud Resume Challenge is
impressive enough to make experienced IT
people say "I want that on my resume", it is
really going to make you stand out as an
entry-level job-hunter.

If you give this project a try and realize that you
hate it, or you’re just not interested, you’ll have
learned a valuable lesson about whether or not
you really want a career in the cloud – because
these are the types of problems that real cloud
engineers and developers really work on. It's
not a contrived toy exercise.

But I believe that if you can, in good faith,
complete the Cloud Resume Challenge, you
will already have more useful skills than a lot of
people who graduate from university computer
science programs. Specifically, you will
understand something about:

● Full-stack software development (the
static website and Python pieces)

34



● Version control (the Github piece)
● Infrastructure as code (the

CloudFormation / SAM piece)
● Continuous integration and delivery

(connecting GitHub Actions, SAM, and
AWS)

● Cloud services and “serverless”
(Lambda, API Gateway, DynamoDB,
Route53, CloudFront, S3)

● Application security (IAM, S3 policies,
CORS, API authentication/authorization)

● Networking, as in the way computers
talk to each other (DNS, CDNs, the
whole "cloud" thing)

● Networking, as in the way people talk to
each other (the blog post, the Discord
community - this is probably the
highest-value step in the whole
challenge because of the professional
doors it can unlock for you, and we'll talk
about that in more detail later on.)

I'd recommend preparing a story about your
experience with each of these bulleted items to
use in job interviews. The reality is that
"baptism by fire" is the best way to learn,
because there's nothing like pounding your
head against a DNS problem for two days to

35



burn it into your head in a way that cramming
for a test never could.

Moreover, you’ll have learned by doing,
because I didn’t give you enough instructions
to figure any of this out without going down
some late-night rabbit holes.

Most importantly, you will have demonstrated
the number-one skill in a cloud engineer’s
toolbox: the ability to learn fast and google
well.

I've spoken with dozens of hiring managers
over the history of the challenge, and all of
them insist that "ability to pick up new things
quickly, in a self-motivated way" is their most
highly prized quality in a team member, more
than competence on any specific technology.
To be perfectly blunt, many of the tools and
services you've used in the challenge may be
obsolete in 5 years. But your ability to glue
them together into something that works will
remain. It will get you interviews and build your
confidence that you can thrive in whatever
technical paradigm comes next.

36



Breaking down the challenge
How long will it take you to complete the Cloud
Resume Challenge?

This really depends on your previous level of
experience. In a recent community survey, I
asked a bunch of challengers to self-report
how many hours they spent working on the
project. (Note that I didn't ask for an overall
time window, so I don't know if these people
are working, say 8 hours a day for 5 days or 2
hours a night for 20. I also didn't ask them how
long they spent preparing for their certification,
since everybody's study habits are different.)

Number of hours to complete the challenge,
as reported by participants

Huh! The divisions of this pie look pretty similar
to the ones in the "previous experience" graph

37



I showed you earlier, with years of experience
mapping roughly onto faster challenge
completion. From that similarity, we might draw
the following weak rule of thumb:

Assume at least 40 hours to complete the
challenge (not including cert prep time) if
you have zero prior experience in cloud or
software development. For each year of
experience you have up to 3 years, shave
~10 hours off the expected time.

Your individual mileage will vary, and the
amount of time you need is ultimately not
important to the outcome. The challenge is not
a race. Taking shortcuts (say, by peeking at
other people's solutions online) just devalues
your own learning experience. Focus on really
understanding why you are completing each
step, not on blazing through them.

With all of the above in mind, here is a sample
mapping of tasks to time that you may find
more helpful than the original 16-step order.

How I would approach the Cloud Resume
Challenge

38



If you're not sure how you want to tackle the
16 steps of the challenge, try this method.

Projected Time Commitment: 50-70 hours
over 6 weeks (adjust expected hours
downward if you have previous experience)

Week Challenge
Milestone

Week 0: Certification Complete a Certified
Prep Cloud Practitioner
(Challenge Step 1) prep course and

practice exam (10ish
hours)

Week 1: Front End Get your resume laid
(Challenge Steps out in HTML. Style it
2-6) with CSS. Get the

website deployed to
S3 and fronted with
DNS / CloudFront.
(5-10ish hours)

Week 2: Back-End Get source control
API set up. Get the visitor
(Challenge Steps counter saving to the
8-10, 13) database. (10ish

hours)

39



Week 3: Front-End / Get the visitor
Back-End Integration counter displaying on
(Challenge Steps 7, the homepage. Add
11) tests for your code.

(10-15ish hours)

Week 4: Automation / Get your
CI infrastructure
(Challenge Steps 12, automated with SAM
14, 15) and deploying via

GitHub Actions.
(10ish hours)

Week 5: The Blog … Sit and pass CCP
and Beyond exam. Write blog
(Challenge Steps 1, post.
16) Celebrate!

(as much time as you
want/need)

So that's six self-contained chunks of work you
can do in sequence. If a chunk takes you more
than a week, or you want to double up, that's
fine too. You're in the driver's seat here; go at
your own pace.

40



Community resources
The double-edged advantage/disadvantage of
starting the Cloud Resume Challenge now, as
opposed to two years ago, is that the
challenger community has created a ton of
support resources to help you.

Why is this a disadvantage? Remember, the
burning pain of sitting up late with fifty tabs
open, trying to figure out why your API won't
return anything, is actually the most powerful
part of the learning experience. And I still
recommend that you avoid looking at anyone's
actual solution code if you can help it.

Think of other challenge solutions as spoilers.
You didn't want to know the ending of
Avengers: Endgame before you entered the
theater. Don't let some other developer spoil
the learning experience and pride of crushing
the challenge on your own merits.

But with all of that said, there are still some
wonderful helps and extensions to the
challenge out there for anyone who's curious,
masochistic, or just plain stuck.

41



The Cloud Resume Challenge
Discord Server
This is the place to be if you are working on the
challenge. Join 4000+ other cloud enthusiasts
ranging from beginners to experienced
mentors. Ask your challenge questions, get
code review, view cloud job postings, or just
chat about cloud and life. It's free and very
chill. I'm there. What more reason do you
need? Join us already.

The Cloud Resume Challenge GitHub
Repository
The Cloud Resume Challenge is open-sourced
here, and this repository has also become a
community destination for additional projects
created in the spirit of the original challenge. If
you want to give back to the community, this is
a great place to do so.

The Cloud Resume Challenge Video
Tutorials
Lou Bichard, founder of "Open Up The Cloud"
and tireless friend of the challenge, has put
together a comprehensive video series walking

42



through each step of the original AWS
challenge. If you're a visual learner, or are
having trouble figuring out a specific step,
Lou's videos are a fantastic resource. His
associated GitHub repository also curates a
nice selection of blogs written by challenge
champions.

The Challenge in Spanish
Challenger Jesus Rodriguez generously gave
his time to translate the original challenge, as
well as some FAQ, into Spanish. If you'd like
the Cloud Resume Challenge translated into
another language and have the know-how to
do so, please reach out - we'll figure out a way
to make it freely available on the challenge
homepage.

More AWS Challenges
When I worked at A Cloud Guru, I
spearheaded an effort to extend the general
challenge format to a variety of technical
projects, and the response has mostly been
pretty good. Note that each of these projects
includes "extra credit" ideas for making it your

43



own - take advantage of that, as most folks
don't!

● Event-Driven Python on AWS
I wrote this project myself, and so I'm
glad that it seems to have helped a lot of
people. It takes really core,
bread-and-butter enterprise cloud skills
(working with data warehouses, ELT
pipelines, Python, and events), mixes
them with some timely COVID-19 data
sets, and walks you through building a
real-time dashboard that's sure to start a
conversation. A great project to take into
a data or DevOps engineering interview.

● Machine Learning on AWS
Build a movie recommendation engine
with AWS ML Hero Kesha Williams. This
one is *tough*. It's one of the rare cases
where you'll gain plenty of learning even
if you start by reading her follow-up blog
where she explains exactly how she did
it. Great for data scientists and data
engineers.

● Improving application performance
on AWS

44



Here's where you can get your hands
cloudy with some good old-fashioned
servers. Stand up a web app, figure out
how to make it faster with judicious use
of caching. A great project to take into a
cloud architect interview.

Part 2: Challenge
walkthrough

45



Setup and safety (before you
begin)
Warning: The cloud is a power tool, and if
you're not careful it will slice off your thumb.

Before you start this project, you'll want to take
necessary precautions to protect your
information, your sanity, and your wallet.

Do not proceed with the challenge steps until
you have read and implemented the safety
prerequisites below.

Access and credentials
You'll access the AWS cloud in two ways:
through the web interface (the "console"), and
via code from your laptop or other services.
Every cloud action you take - whether you are
creating a new resource or just retrieving a list
of your current ones - requires access
credentials.

There are two ways you can set up an AWS
personal development environment: the
original way, and the professional way (the
way I recommend). Choose the old way if you
want a well-trodden path with lots of online
help; choose the way I recommend if you want

46



to use AWS the way the pros do it. The way I
recommend will also make some of the
advanced challenge mods significantly easier.

The original way (if you must)
1. Create an AWS account.
2. To access AWS from code or CLI

commands you run on your laptop, you'll
need to set up some configuration files
on your local machine. Many
challengers like to use a third-party tool
such as aws-vault or awsume to help
with configuring IAM user credentials
and assuming IAM roles; those tools are
recommended but not required.

If you do choose this setup method, heed the
following security warnings:

● Never use your "root account" for
anything except initial account setup,
and make sure you enable MFA
(multi-factor authentication) on it.

● Instead of using the root account, create
an IAM user (enable MFA on this too) to
manage your own access to your AWS
account.

● Best practice is not even to use this IAM
user directly, but to have the user

47



assume an IAM role for any actions you
take against AWS. Temporary
credentials are always safer than
long-lived ones.

● Never, under any circumstances,
publish AWS access credentials such as
your IAM user access key ID and secret
access key in any public location such
as a blog or GitHub repository. Attackers
crawl the web with automated scripts to
harvest these credentials and use them
against you. If you do realize that you've
leaked a credential, revoke it
immediately so it can no longer be used.

The professional way (my recommendation)
Most professional cloud engineers don't
configure AWS credential files on their
machines anymore. That's partly for security
reasons, and partly because they're usually not
working with just one AWS account. Modern
cloud shops use dozens or even hundreds of
different AWS accounts, typically managed
through AWS Organizations. And we're going
to use Organizations, too:

1. Create an initial AWS account. This
account will ONLY be used for AWS

48



Organizations / SSO setup. You will not
be using it to build any applications.
Guard the root password to this account
with your life (ie, with a good password
manager).

2. Set up your AWS Organization in this
"root" account. You may not be part of
an actual cloud organization yet, but you
can still be organized. I recommend
using AWS Organizations to manage
your personal accounts, even if you only
have one AWS account to start with.
The lovely open source tool
org-formation will help you set up your
organization (it's better and cheaper
than AWS-native tools like Control
Tower, and it has the advantage of
generating all your org setup as
infrastructure-as-code config). Start by
reading their illustrated how-and-why
Organizations explanation.

3. Create a couple of OUs
(Organizational Units) inside the
Organization to hold your accounts. I
suggest creating at least one for
"production" (live, user-facing) services
and one for "test" experiments. You can
always add more or rearrange these
later.

49



4. Create a new AWS account inside
each OU. This is the account you will
actually build stuff in. Again, read the
org-formation docs on how to do this.
(Use the + suffix on your root email
address so you don't have to create new
email addresses for your new accounts -
just make sure your email provider
supports that. I know Gmail does.) Make
sure you are using a password manager
to keep track of the root passwords for
these and any other AWS accounts you
create within your organization.

5. Next, you're going to set up AWS SSO
(Single Sign-On) in your "root" AWS
account to log into the other AWS
accounts in your organization. The pros
typically use AWS SSO so they can log
into AWS using their organization's
identity provider like Okta - but you can
totally use it for a personal setup without
needing to involve any third-party
services. Follow this outstanding tutorial,
the best I've seen, to make the setup
easy. Make sure to set up MFA for your
SSO user.

6. Finally, you'll want an easy way to log
into AWS SSO from your command
line. AWS SSO has an official CLI, but

50



you can also try Ben Kehoe's
aws-sso-util for some additional
features.

7. When you're done, you should be able
to pop open an AWS console from your
command line to reach your target
accounts - no long-lived credentials
required.

Yes, this is a few more steps than the old way
of doing things (it's actually a useful
mini-project in and of itself). But follow those
steps, and you'll be managing and accessing
AWS the way professional cloud teams do -
which will pay off dividends throughout this
challenge.

Billing
You can play with many services on AWS for
free, within limits. I designed the Cloud
Resume Challenge to use resources that fall
primarily within the free tier. If you're not sure
whether a service you're about to use will cost
you money, check the free tier docs first.

However, the cloud's billing model is designed
primarily to make it easy for businesses to
consume services, and that means it can cost
you significant money if you're not careful. It's a

51



good idea to set up AWS billing alerts and keep
an eye on the billing console to keep apprised
of any charges before you see them on your
credit card bill. But be aware that the billing
alerts operate on a delay of several hours.

As above, keep in mind that attackers would
very much like to gain access to your AWS
account so that they can run their own
workloads, such as expensive Bitcoin mining
operations, on your credit card. Guard your
AWS credentials as if they're the keys to your
bank account; they basically are.

The best way to avoid unexpected cloud
charges is simply to delete any resources
you're not using, as soon as you're done using
them. This is another place where AWS
Organizations provides an advantage. If you're
done using a test account, you can just delete
it - that's the sure way to end all charges
associated with the project.

If you do run into a large unanticipated charge -
say, you thought you deleted all the resources
from a tutorial you worked through, but missed
a GPU instance and got charged $200 -  it's
always a good idea to contact AWS before you

52



panic. Their customer support will often forgive
all or part of the bill on a first mistake.

Cloud hygiene
A few general rules for safe and healthy cloud
living:

● Make a new AWS account for each
project you work on.

● Clean up after yourself at the end of
each work session - don't leave services
running if you don't need them.

● Use temporary credentials everywhere
you can.

● Use infrastructure-as-code (IAC) to
define any resources you plan to keep.
We'll spend much more time learning
how to do this in Challenge Chunk 4.

● Whenever possible, build using
"serverless"-style managed services that
only charge you for actions you take,
rather than server-based systems that
run all the time and bill you 24/7.

● When you're done building something
and don't need to run it anymore, delete
the AWS account out of your
organization. (If you've used proper
infrastructure-as-code, you haven't lost

53



anything - you can just deploy the code
in a new account later!)

54



Chunk 0: Certification prep
We'll dig into the challenge proper in the next
section (though it's fine to work ahead!). In this
chunk we are focused on certification prep.
The goal is to take an initial practice
certification exam for the AWS Certified Cloud
Practitioner (or another, more advanced AWS
cert - your choice) to set a knowledge baseline.
You can take the actual cert exam whenever
you're ready. I suggest putting it on the
calendar now - there's nothing like a deadline
to get you serious about studying.

How to approach this chunk
Certification is the only step that you can
complete literally at any point in the challenge.
You can do it up front, save it til the end, or
study for your cert while you are completing
other steps. In that sense, it's disconnected
from the rest of the challenge.

But let’s get real about certs for a minute. I’ve
yet to meet a hiring manager who believes that
IT certifications guarantee technical ability.
(And let’s be honest, you wouldn’t want to work
for someone who believed that.) A cert is just a
piece of paper, after all — and that’s only if you
print out the PDF. It doesn’t magically give you

55



the experience you need to succeed in the real
world.

And yet, cloud certification has been helpful in
my engineering career, and I encourage it for
everyone looking to get a foothold in the
industry. Certs are powerful tools, as long as
you understand what they are and are not
good for.

Certs give you a comprehensive knowledge
base
You may not have a traditional computer
science degree. But if you work through, say,
the AWS Certified Solutions Architect
Associate certification, you will get exposed to
the core AWS services and architecture

56



patterns that industry professionals use. You
won’t have to worry that you missed big topic
areas in your job prep. The cert puts it all in
one place. Very convenient. In this sense, it
almost doesn’t matter whether or not you ever
sit the cert exam! Just studying the material
gives you the real value.

Certs help you get interviews
When a recruiter is reading through your
resume, a cloud certification does stand out. It
says you’re serious about the field and that
there is some external validation of that —
especially if you are missing a traditional
credential like a college degree in computer
science. The cert’s not going to get you the job,
but it might get your foot in the door for the
interview.

Certs are a big advantage … for one
particular type of job
Professional services companies like
consulting shops and MSPs are among the
biggest employers of cloud-certified people.
That’s because certs are very valuable in the
consulting world:

● Certification counts help the consulting
companies maintain important
partnerships with cloud providers like

57



AWS and Microsoft. More people with
certs add up to higher partnership tiers
and better benefits.

● Certs help communicate expertise to the
consultants’ clients. If I’m hiring an
outside consultant, I want to see
credentials!

● They are required for certain types of
consulting engagements (for example,
AWS only allows certified Solutions
Architect Professionals to conduct an
official AWS Well-Architected Review).

Big consultancies have a bottomless appetite
for cloud-certified professionals … assuming
you actually know what the cert says you know,
of course! So you really open up your job
options by getting certified.

How many certs do I need
before applying to cloud jobs?
Is the Certified Cloud

Practitioner really enough?

I recommended the CCP in the original
challenge because I like it as a formalized
way to introduce beginners to cloud concepts
- not so much because it is impressive to

58



hiring managers. The CCP (or an equivalent
cert such as Azure's AZ-900 or Google
Cloud's Digital Leader) is really intended
more for nontechnical roles.

So, here's a pro tip: I think that nearly
everyone I've seen get their first cloud job
through the Cloud Resume Challenge had
earned a more advanced certification,
such as one or more of the AWS
associate-level technical certs. I've seen a
few exceptions to this rule, but not many.

While in one sense, more certs are always
better (I’ve never *not* been impressed by
someone who holds all 12 AWS certifications
— that’s an impressive achievement by any
definition), you do reach a point where you
need to focus on building other skills.
Otherwise, you run the risk of appearing like
you are all head knowledge and no practical
ability. That's what the rest of the challenge is
for.

Helpful resources
In this section, I'll try to provide some
resources that will make your life easier if you
take the time to read them before diving into

59



your hands-on work. Since this chunk is about
certification, I'll list some recommended cert
prep resources. I don't get affiliate credit or
anything for mentioning these; they're just my
personal recommendations based on having
been around the space for awhile.

Paid resources
For hands-on labs: A Cloud Guru. I used to
work at ACG and was repeatedly impressed by
the quality of the cloud playground
environments when I did - they're the same
technology that was formerly the best thing
about Linux Academy. With one click you can
get a fresh AWS (or Azure or Google Cloud)
sandbox that stays live for several hours of
learning time. Best thing about that: it removes
the worry of standing up resources on your
credit card and getting a surprise bill.

For AWS cert study: Adrian Cantrill's one-man
cert empire. Not the cheapest, but comes with
a vibrant community and Adrian's legendary
attention to detail - he's a living example of the
truth that the greatest competitive advantage is
simply caring more about quality than
everybody else.

60



For realistic practice exams: Jon Bonso of
Tutorials Dojo is the way to go. His exams are
realistic without being rip-offs. Beware of exam
dumps in shady subreddits - they're no way to
learn, and plus they violate your exam
agreement with AWS.

Free resources
Andrew Brown has a number of AWS cert
courses available for free through
freeCodeCamp.

Mods
In each "Mods" section, I'll offer some
suggestions on how you can extend that
portion of the challenge to incorporate
additional learning; to go "above and beyond"
in your pursuit of cloud excellence. Since we're
talking about certifications here, I'll give some
advice on what certs you might want to try,
going beyond the baseline CCP cert,
depending on what your career goals are.

DevOps Mod: If you have several years of
existing IT experience
Skip the associate-level cloud certs; go straight
for a professional-level certification such as the
AWS Certified Solutions Architect Professional

61



or DevOps Professional. You are sending a
signal that you are not here to mess around:
you are in fact an IT Pro and you have the
paper to - well, if not to prove it, at least to not
contradict it. Be aware that these certifications
are quite difficult; they consist of page-length
questions that ask you to make complex
architectural decisions involving many moving
parts. You will get multiple hours to take the
exam and you will likely need them. But it's
worth it if you want to make a smooth transition
from your existing IT job to a mid- or
senior-level cloud position.

Security Mod: If you want a cloud security
job
I would suggest getting the AWS Solutions
Architect Associate cert followed by the
Security specialty cert. In my experience, cloud
security applicants tend to stand out more if
they have strong programming and automation
skills, so it might not hurt to look into the
Certified Developer Associate exam as well.
This is on top of any non-cloud security certs
you might pursue.

62



Developer Mod: If you want to become a
cloud developer
If you are going for a cloud software
engineering job, forget certs, including the
Certified Developer Associate. Certs are going
to be of no help in those interview loops. You
are on the leetcode train now, my friend.

Developer Mod: If you are about to graduate
from college with a computer science-y
degree
Be aware that your college degree is by far a
more valuable credential than any particular
cloud certification. If you have the time and
means to get a cloud certification too, I would
just go for the Solutions Architect Associate as
a nice resume-rounder-outer. You are
supposed to be a generalist at this point on
your career track; I wouldn't worry about
picking up any pro or specialty-level certs until
you get some experience.

Stacy's story: From IT Service Desk
Manager to Cloud Operations
Engineer

63



How long it took Stacy to complete the Cloud
Resume Challenge: 50 or so hours, spread
over 6 weeks

How long it took Stacy to get a cloud job after
completing the challenge: 1 month

What was your background in IT before
turning to cloud?

I'd been working in IT for several years with a
Windows administration focus, but I wanted
to specialize in cloud for career growth.

When I found the Cloud Resume Challenge, I
thought it looked like a great way to learn
cloud tech by getting hands-on experience
and completing a project that could be added
to a resume or used as a talking point in
interviews.

How did you use the challenge during
interviews?

When I was asked about AWS experience,
what AWS services I was familiar with, or
technical questions (the difference between
public vs. private subnets, describe a 3-tier

64



architecture), I was able to bring up my work
in the challenge as examples. Due to the
wide variety of commonly used AWS
services that were incorporated into the
challenge, it was easy to use that as a talking
point.

Any advice for other upskillers such as
yourself?

Don't give up! The jobs are out there, but you
need to find the right environment for growth.
A lot of cloud jobs are geared towards
senior-level people with years of experience,
but there are companies out there that are
willing to grow their own.

Doing the Cloud Resume Challenge will set
you apart and show that you have the
curiosity, resilience, and motivation to make a
career in cloud.

Also, while you are interviewing, start
learning Terraform and Linux administration.
Those two skills will help you immensely both
during the interview process and on the job.

65



Pause to reflect
Have you taken your initial practice exam?
Great! Take a few moments to think about what
you've learned so far.

● What are the top 2-3 areas of cloud that
you feel least comfortable with right
now?

● When do you plan to take your
certification? What's your study plan
between now and then?

● What other areas of DevOps or software
development do you want to get better
at outside of cloud certification?

In a notes app or text file, write down your
answers to these questions. This will come in
handy later when it's time to write your blog
post. Trust me, you do not want to be staring at
a blank piece of paper at the end of this
project!

Remember that you can also discuss these
questions with your colleagues in the CRC
Discord server.

66



Chunk 1: Building the front end
At the end of this chunk, you will have created
and deployed a cloud-hosted resume at a live
URL that you can share with anyone. (That's
right!) Here are this chunk's steps again as a
reminder:

(Challenge Steps 2-6)

2. HTML
Your resume needs to be written in HTML.
Not a Word doc, not a PDF. Here is an
example of what I mean.

3. CSS
Your resume needs to be styled with CSS.
No worries if you’re not a designer – neither
am I. It doesn’t have to be fancy. But we
need to see something other than raw HTML
when we open the webpage.

4. Static S3 Website
Your HTML resume should be deployed
online as an Amazon S3 static website.
Services like Netlify and GitHub Pages are
great and I would normally recommend them
for personal static site deployments, but they

67



make things a little too abstract for our
purposes here. Use S3.

5. HTTPS
The S3 website URL should use HTTPS for
security. You will need to use Amazon
CloudFront to help with this.

6. DNS
Point a custom DNS domain name to the
CloudFront distribution, so your resume can
be accessed at something like
my-c00l-resume-website.com. You can
use Amazon Route 53 or any other DNS
provider for this. A domain name usually
costs about ten bucks to register.

How to approach this chunk
Many people find that setting out basic HTML
and CSS is the easiest part of the challenge for
them, and so they speed through steps 2-6
only to find that the challenge gets much more
difficult around step 7.

This is not because front-end development is
easy. It's because the challenge has very

68



limited, basic requirements for the static site. I
did this by design, for a couple of reasons:

● I'm not a front-end developer, and I'm
not qualified to set you a really
cutting-edge web development
challenge!

● You are probably not going to be
slinging a lot of front-end code in a cloud
engineering role. You're going to be
interviewing for infrastructure and ops
jobs where your ability to center a div is
not that relevant.

Creating the static site is more about
completeness, and about having a project you
can easily demo in an interview, than it is about
building a web client that will really knock
everyone's socks off. (Though I've seen some
really slick challenge sites out there!)

But that said, having to work with gluing a front
end and a back end together is SUPER
important. Part of what makes steps 7 and
following such a challenge is that you're not
just creating an API in a vacuum. You have to
figure out how to communicate securely with a
browser, handle client-generated errors,

69



account for cache, and all sorts of other things
that cloud engineers deal with every day.

All of which is to say: don't get complacent
here! You are getting the pieces in place for the
big challenges to follow.

Why does the Cloud Resume
Challenge ask me to upload my
website to an S3 bucket and

figure out DNS and HTTPS by myself
instead of using a purpose-built cloud
static website service like AWS Amplify?

In general, the best tool for a cloud job is "the
most fully-managed service that meets your
needs." So yes, using AWS Amplify, or Azure
Static Web Apps, or a third-party static
hosting service like Netlify or GitHub Pages,
would be the fastest and easiest way to
accomplish this week's portion of the
challenge. Heck, cloudresumechallenge.dev
runs on Netlify, and I have no reason to make
a change at this point.

The reason I want you NOT to use those
services for this project is because I really
want you to understand and grapple with

70



DNS, SSL certificate setup, and cloud
storage. The reality is that most projects you
will encounter in the work world will not fit
neatly onto a static hosting service. But they
will require you - over and over again - to
deal with the basic building blocks of cloud
storage, authentication, and networking.

In a job interview, you are not going to get
asked to explain how you would follow the
prompts in an Amplify dialog. But you might
very well get asked to explain how DNS
works. And you will remember the answer to
that question much better if you do the Cloud
Resume Challenge the way I've suggested.

But in future, when you're standing up a
static site about your Magic the Gathering
card collection, just use Netlify. It'll be faster,
and probably cheaper as well.

Helpful resources

HTML / CSS
If you're brand-new to HTML and CSS, there
are endless tutorials out there. Codecademy
seems to have plenty of good ones, though I'm

71



not sure if they're all free. I also must
recommend CSS Tricks, the greatest source
for CSS articles and guides on the web - much
of it's advanced stuff, but if you want to
continue your learning in this area you should
subscribe to them right away.

Static website tutorials
The actual cloud part of this chunk of work is
pretty tutorial-friendly; if you follow these four
tutorials from AWS on static site setup,
CloudFront setup, alternate domain names,
and HTTPS for CloudFront, you'll be 90% of
the way there.

DNS and CDNs
CloudFlare (a CloudFront competitor) has an
excellent series of articles explaining the theory
behind DNS and CDNs. They also have a
quick and easy diagnostic center for HTTPS
issues. And, for good measure, their domain
registry might be the best place to buy your
website domain name, since they don't have
any markups or hidden fees.

I am also a massive fan of the interactive DNS
tutorials created by Julia Evans. DNS Lookup
lets you explore the DNS servers behind your
own site; even more epically, Mess With DNS

72



is a free DNS sandbox that includes tutorials to
help you understand the limits and
ramifications of what DNS can do.

Actual CRC sites
For inspiration, here's a curated list of actual
challengers' websites maintained by
community member Lou Bichard.

Jerry's story: From respiratory
therapist to Associate Solutions
Architect at AWS

How long it took Jerry to compete the Cloud
Resume Challenge: About 20 hours over the
course of 1 week

How long it took Jerry to get a cloud job after
completing the challenge: 1 month

So you had never worked in tech before
tackling the challenge?

I worked nearly 14 years as a respiratory
therapist and in a healthcare management
role.

73



I had certifications and other small projects
for my portfolio but I wanted to accomplish a
build that would give me hands-on
experience with a broad range of services.
Something I could explain in-depth and
walkthrough in an interview situation.

How much did the certs help you get
hired, as opposed to the project
experience?

I had 4 AWS certifications. I would say it was
a bonus to have getting my name in front of
the right people but ultimately getting
hands-on and understanding the HOW and
WHY was the most beneficial aspect. For
anyone who asks for advice that’s the first
thing I mention. Do the Cloud Resume
Challenge or compatible challenge and get
your hands on the console and CLI.

How did you use the challenge during
interviews?

When interviewing with Amazon, the Cloud
Resume Challenge was a big talking point for
me. When going through the interview “loop”,

74



everyone seemed to be impressed with the
range of services used within this one
project.

I also had to build something myself to demo
during the interview process and included
some skills I got from the Challenge to build
a serverless transcoding pipeline integrated
with my Synology NAS, Elastic Transcoder
and Lambda functions.

What do you wish someone had told you
during that 4-month job search?

Don’t. Give. UP! Keep pushing. No matter
how hard someone says it might be, no
matter how frustrated you may get at times,
keep learning and stay positive. Imposter
syndrome is a real thing and we ALL deal
with it at some point in our careers.

Get hands-on experience building and
architecting, anticipate failure and re-build
again until you nail that project/build. As
AWS CTO Werner Vogels famously said,
“everything fails all the time." Keep pushing,
keep building, and keep your head up in the
clouds.

75



Mods

Developer Mod: Frame Job
If you have a little bit of front-end knowledge or
ambition, you may not be satisfied with
dumping some HTML and CSS into an S3
bucket. You may want to build your front end
using one of the following Javascript
frameworks:

● Next.js
● React
● Vue
● Svelte

At the very least, I'd recommend using a static
site framework such as Hugo or Jekyll. This will
make your site more maintainable over time
than a single giant HTML file, and open up
opportunities for you to integrate the many
features of those platforms and their templates.

DevOps Mod: Automation Nation
This is a forward-looking mod that requires
several skills we won't officially touch on until
Chunks 3 and 4. Feel free to come back to this

76



mod then, or jump into it now if you're feeling
confident.

The official challenge spec doesn't technically
require you to port your front-end resources to
infrastructure-as-code, but I think you should
do it if you have time. Creating S3 and
CloudFront config is great practice, and this
way you can run an end-to-end test that uses
browser automation.

1. Make sure you have a GitHub repository
set up for your website code and
configuration.

2. Convert your S3, Route53, and
CloudFront resources to
infrastructure-as-code (IaC) using
CloudFormation, Terraform, or whatever
IaC tool you plan to use in Chunk 4.

3. Create GitHub Actions to automatically
build and deploy updates to your static
site. I recommend creating a three-step
workflow, as follows:

● Build step. Run any build
commands necessary to get your
website ready to deploy -
depending on what front-end
framework / generator you are

77



using, this may take a few
seconds.

● Deploy step. Deploy your IaC
configuration to create or update
your cloud resources such as the
bucket and CDN, then sync your
updated website files to the
bucket. You will also want to clear
your CDN cache here.

● Smoke test step. Here's where
you can run Cypress tests
against the website itself, to
make sure it looks and acts the
way you expect. See Chunk 3 for
more discussion of Cypress.

Confirm your automation works by nuking your
manual website deployment and deploying it
by pushing a change to your repository. Look
Mom, no hands!

Security Mod: Spoof Troop
An advanced project mod that will be a great
choice if you're looking toward a cloud security
role. Protect your DNS setup from potential
spoofing ("man-in-the-middle") attacks by
configuring DNSSEC for your site domain
name.

78



● Note that not every domain registrar
supports configuring DNSSEC, but
Route53 does.

● If you use Route53, you will need to set
up an AWS KMS key to help, and
configure rotation of that key (you'll want
to automate this).

Pause to reflect
When you've completed Step 6, and you're
accessing your live site over HTTPS at your
custom domain name, take a deep breath and
celebrate! Even if you stop working on the
project right here, you've still created
something of value that can be a useful piece
of your professional presence for years to
come. Then, while your work is still fresh in
your mind, write down answers to the
questions below.

● What aspect of Chunk 1's work did you
find the most difficult?

● Note one or two problems you
overcame to get the static site deployed;
include the error messages or
screenshots of the issues, and write
down what you did to fix them.

● What's something you'd have done
differently, or added, if you'd had more

79



time?
● If you tried one of the mods, note what

you did, and how it's an improvement
over the basic challenge requirements.

80



Chunk 2: Building the API
We're going to break up the "visitor counter"
piece of the project - which requires creating a
cloud-based API that communicates with our
website - over this chunk and next. By the end
of this section, we'll have a working AWS
serverless API that updates the visitor count in
a database. We'll also store our Python code in
a GitHub repository, so we can track changes
to it over time.

(Challenge Steps 8-10, 13)

8. Database
The visitor counter will need to retrieve and
update its count in a database somewhere. I
suggest you use Amazon’s DynamoDB for
this. (Use on-demand pricing for the
database and you’ll pay essentially nothing,
unless you store or retrieve much more data
than this project requires.) Here is a great
free course on DynamoDB.

9. API
Do not communicate directly with DynamoDB
from your Javascript code. Instead, you will
need to create an API that accepts requests

81



from your web app and communicates with
the database. I suggest using AWS’s API
Gateway and Lambda services for this. They
will be free or close to free for what we are
doing.

10. Python
You will need to write a bit of code in the
Lambda function; you could use more
Javascript, but it would be better for our
purposes to explore Python – a common
language used in back-end programs and
scripts – and its boto3 library for AWS. Here
is a good, free Python tutorial.

13. Source Control
You do not want to be updating either your
back-end API or your front-end website by
making calls from your laptop, though. You
want them to update automatically whenever
you make a change to the code. (This is
called continuous integration and
deployment, or CI/CD.) Create a GitHub
repository for your backend code.

How to approach this chunk

82



There are a lot of half-finished Cloud Resume
Challenges out there that never get past steps
7-10. Because this is the part where you have
to write legit code, in both Python and
Javascript. If you have not written code in a
programming language before (and, frankly,
even if you have) it is painful, time-consuming,
and open-ended … even though when you
finally get done, you'll probably find that you've
really not had to write that many lines of code
at all.

So this is the part of the challenge that
separates the wannabes from the champions.
If you can build the back end of the Cloud
Resume Challenge, you can do anything.
Specifically: you can get hired as a cloud
engineer. I'm quite confident of that.

OK, enough hype. It's a big chunk of work.
Here's how I would break it down. You should
be able to find online tutorials that cover each
of these individual steps.

Goal 1: Get your Lambda function talking to
the database (challenge step 8)

1. Set up a Python Lambda function using
the AWS web console (don't worry about
using SAM yet).

83



2. Set up a DynamoDB table, again using
point and click.

3. Figure out how to write the Python code
in your Lambda function that will save a
value to the DynamoDB table. You'll just
be testing your Lambda function from
the console at this point. You'll need to
figure out IAM permissions between the
function and the table as well.

Goal 2: Trigger your Lambda function from
the outside world (challenge step 9)

1. Put an API Gateway route in front of
your Lambda function, still using the
web console. I would suggest using a
POST HTTP method, since this method
is typically used when API resources are
updated, and you are going to be
incrementing the visitor counter in your
database every time this function is
called.

2. Make sure you can test the function
from the API Gateway's internal test
console and get some sort of "Hello
World" response back from your code.
You may need to workshop permissions
a bit.

3. When this is working, grab the public
URL for your gateway and test it using

84



an external API testing service like
Postman. You want to see the same
output from your Lambda function there.

Goal 3: Trigger your Lambda function from
your static site (challenge step 7 - the next
chunk!)

If you can get through these three chunks of
work, you've solved the back end. And that
means that you're going to get two-thirds of the
way there in this section. (I know, I know.
Easier said than done. If you're budgeting time
for the challenge and you're new to cloud and
code, expect to spend easily 60% of your
overall time commitment on these three
chunks.) You can do it; I believe in you.

Why are we building the API
"serverlessly"?

The "AWS serverless stack" of Lambda, API
Gateway, and DynamoDB isn't the only way
to build an API. In fact, it's a fairly new way;
through much of IT history, web services
have run on servers (or, at least, abstracted
servers called "virtual machines"). There are

85



three reasons I'm asking you to build your
API on higher-level services instead:

● Ease of use. "Serverless" doesn't
mean your API won't have servers
underneath it (it will), but that you
won't have to worry about them,
because they're managed by the
cloud provider. All you have to do is
focus on writing your code and getting
the configuration right to connect the
managed services together.

● Cost efficiency. A traditional virtual
machine runs all the time, even when
it's not handling requests. In the cloud
world, that means you get billed all the
time. Since serverless functions only
run in response to events, usually for
just fractions of a second, they are
extremely cost-effective. You will not
pay anything to run the code for your
visitor counter unless your API
receives millions of hits per month.

● The "new and shiny" factor. While
many cloud shops are still running
older, traditional server-based
architectures, there's wide interest
throughout the industry in exploring

86



more managed cloud technologies
where they make sense. By getting
your feet wet with serverless, you're
actually placing yourself on the cutting
edge. Many of your interviewers may
not even have as much experience
with serverless as you do. Standing
out can be a good thing!

That said, if you really want to serve your
website using a more traditional web hosting
architecture, you're certainly welcome to. Lou
Bichard and Tony Morris have even created a
modified Cloud Resume Challenge that helps
you do that. Just watch those costs!

Helpful resources

Python
If you are new to writing Python, expect to
budget a fair amount of time for learning in this
section, before you get into the actual project
steps.

As with CSS, there's such an embarrassment
of tutorials out there that it can be
overwhelming to know where to start. If you

87



like learning from books, try O'Reilly's; if you
prefer videos, here's freeCodeCamp's; for
hands-on tutorials, python.org has a marvelous
list. Candidly, there's so much good free stuff
out there that I probably wouldn't consider
paying for a course.

Here are the big things I would make sure you
understand about Python before starting on
this chunk's project work:

● How to install Python and set up a
virtual environment

● Working with lists and dictionaries
● The boto3 library for working with AWS

services

APIs
The kind of API we are building is a REST API.
This podcast (transcript included) is a nice
introduction to what that means and what other
kinds of APIs there are.

The hands-on challenges at The Ultimate API
Challenge seem like a great, free way to get
some practice building and invoking different
toy APIs.

88



AWS serverless
I like this article for a good explanation of what
we mean by the word “serverless” (don’t be
fooled, there are still servers down there
somewhere!)

Get into all things AWS serverless with
serverlessland.com.

Alex DeBrie’s DynamoDB Guide and
associated book is the gold standard for
learning how DynamoDB works.

Source control
GitHub's Learning Lab is a good way to
practice your git and hub skills.

You may also enjoy other interactive Git
tutorials such as Learn Git Branching and Oh
My Git.

Jakob's Story: From Clinical
Research Technician to Cloud
Engineer

89



Time to complete the Cloud Resume
Challenge: ~100 hours, including certification
study

“The Cloud Resume Challenge helped me a
great deal in my job search because it gave
me something to talk about and refer back to.

“By far the most useful thing was my
understanding and implementation of
infrastructure as code. Setting up pipelines to
test and deploy my changes seemed like an
unnecessary step at first, but I think that
being able to discuss how it made quick and
safe iterations possible made me a much
more attractive hire.

"Finishing the Cloud Resume Challenge
showed me that a normal person like me
could build things accessible to the whole
world on the cloud. It changed my inner
monologue from 'I wish someone would build
something to address this need I have' to 'I
could build something to address this need I
have.'

"The Cloud Resume Challenge is a great
way to open your eyes to your own potential.

90



After you finish, KEEP them open and build
the solutions you want to see in the world.
People will notice that."

Mods

Developer Mod: Schemas and Dreamers
Store your visitor counter in a relational
database instead of DynamoDB, maybe using
AWS's RDS Postgres or MySQL service. You'll
have to defend this choice in a job interview
because it will be less "serverless" than the
rest of your setup, but it will get you into some
challenges commonly faced by real cloud
teams, particularly around networking. (How do
you connect a Lambda function, which is
stateless, to an inherently stateful database?)

If you use MySQL, I would start by rewriting
your API function to use Node.js, and then
looking at Jeremy Daly's Serverless MySQL
module to manage your database connections.

You will also need to think about how you
manage and apply updates to your database
schema without breaking your running API.

91



DevOps Mod: Monitor Lizard
One of the most important ops practices is
making sure that you get notified quickly when
your running services do something
unexpected. There are many, many services
that can help you monitor the behavior and
performance of your applications. In the
modern cloud world, Datadog is perhaps the
most ubiquitous third-party product; I wanted to
recommend it for this mod, but it doesn't have
a very flexible free tier. So unless you're willing
to spend extra money for the sake of your
resume, we'll use AWS's built-in product,
CloudWatch, to instrument our API.

Part 1: Establishing metrics
1. Take a minute to read about monitoring

REST APIs using CloudWatch and key
monitoring concepts for Lambda, then
decide on 3 to 5 types of incidents you
want to be alerted about. Some typical
ideas include:

● If your Lambda function
invocation crashes (exits with an
error);

● If the overall latency (response
time) of your API is longer than
usual;

92



● If the total number of Lambda
function invocations within a short
time period is unusually large
(this could indicate that your API
has become hugely popular -
yay! - or that it's undergoing a
denial-of-service attack - ugh!)

Each of these suggested incidents can
be mapped to a CloudWatch metric.

2. When you've decided on metrics you
like, set up a CloudWatch alarm on each
metric. If you do this by hand, remember
to add it to your infrastructure-as-code
definitions in Chunk 4.

3. Set up an SNS topic that the alarms will
notify.

4. Do something outrageous with your API,
like call it 500 times in 2 seconds or
replace all the code with ASCII art, and
make sure the SNS topic receives the
alerts you expect.

Part 2: Getting notified
You could just subscribe your email address to
the SNS topic, but what if a critical alert went
straight to spam or got lost in your inbox? What
you really want to do is send the alerts to a
service that will notify you VERY LOUDLY AND
SPECIFICALLY.

93



The most widely-trusted service for doing this
is called PagerDuty, and it has a pretty good
free tier. Make a free PagerDuty account,
download the app, and then follow PagerDuty's
setup guide to connect your SNS topic.
Confirm you can get alerts to your phone when
the API misbehaves.

Finally, let's connect the alerts to a Slack
workspace - this is sometimes called
"ChatOps" and it could be a useful foundation
for notifying a team about problems with your
app. PagerDuty has a Slack integration, but for
the sake of learning you could also do this
integration directly:

1. If you don't have an existing Slack
workspace you can use, make a free
one.

2. Follow this useful tutorial showing how
to send your alerts to a Slack webhook.
Note that it requires creating a new
Lambda function to trigger on the SNS
notification. Also note the use of AWS's
secure parameter store for the Slack
credentials - this (or AWS Secrets
Manager, which does basically the same
thing but has the disadvantage of not

94



being free) is the proper place to
manage third-party secrets in AWS.

Again, a reminder: whatever infrastructure
(topics, alarms, functions, parameters) you've
created in this mod needs to be converted into
infrastructure-as-code before you can declare
victory - it's the DevOps way!

Security Mod: Check Your Privilege
The principle of least privilege says that your
code should have only the permissions
required to perform necessary actions - nothing
more. That way, even if an attacker
compromises part of your system, they won't
be able to use it as a springboard to infiltrate
untouched parts of your cloud.

1. Use the IAM Access Analyzer to
determine if you have any permissions
in the IAM roles you've created for this
project that are not being used by your
code. Then, remove permissions until
the IAM roles contain only the actions
necessary for your API calls to work.

2. The access analyzer works by
comparing your IAM policies with logs
generated by your running services, so

95



it can only give you recommendations
after you've deployed a
possibly-insecure policy.  Next, you'll
want to make sure that
overly-permissive IAM policies never
make it into the cloud in the first place.
Use policy validation to flag insecure
IAM configurations before they get
deployed. (You can run this by hand for
now, but eventually you'll want to
incorporate this check into your CI/CD
workflow - see Chunk 4. You should run
the policy validator before merging pull
requests into your main branch.)

Pause to reflect
That moment when your API returns a valid
response is a magical thing: you've built a real
web service in the cloud! At this point, you've
gone too far to stop now - but while this chunk
of work is still fresh in your mind, write down
answers to the questions below.

● What aspect of Chunk 2's work did you
find the most difficult?

● Note one or two problems you
overcame to get the cloud function
talking to your database; include the
error messages or screenshots of the

96



issues, and write down what you did to
fix them.

● Did you implement one of the mods?
Note which you chose and what you
learned. How did you improve your
project over the basic spec?

● What's something you'd have done
differently, or added, if you'd had more
time?

97



Chunk 3: Front-end / back-end
integration
It's now time to tie together everything you
worked on in Chunks 1 and 2. You're going to
connect your front end (the resume site
deployed to the cloud bucket) to the back end
(your API) and get the visitor counter
displaying on your homepage. We'll also write
some automated tests to make sure that
behavior is really working.

(Challenge Steps 7, 11)

7. Javascript
Your resume webpage should include a
visitor counter that displays how many
people have accessed the site. You will need
to write a bit of Javascript to make this
happen. Here is a helpful tutorial to get you
started in the right direction.

11. Tests
You should also include some tests for your
Python code. Here are some resources on
writing good Python tests.

98



How to approach this chunk
Here's how I would go about connecting your
API to the website:

1. You'll need to write a tiny bit of
Javascript to make the HTTP request to
the API Gateway. (Seriously, it's just a
couple lines of code - don't overthink it.)

2. Make sure you account for CORS
issues between your browser and the
API. This is almost certainly the most
common and most frustrating issue
faced by challengers. Good news:
everybody eventually figures it out!

3. Verify that you can see output from your
Lambda function returned from the
Javascript call and printed out
somewhere in the web app.

When you get this working, you will want to
write an automated test or two against your
API to confirm that the API always does what
you expect.

How to write your very own smoke test
Writing tests for your code is never a step you
should skip, even if your code is simple enough
that the tests feel perfunctory. But for the
purposes of this challenge, there's a specific

99



type of test you can write that should generate
great conversation in a job interview. It's
sometimes called an "end-to-end test" or a
"smoke test". (Somewhere, Daniel Singletary is
smiling!)

The original challenge prompt steers you
toward writing "unit tests'' using something like
Python's built-in testing library. In a unit test,
you verify that your code returns expected
values before it is deployed.

This is fine, but not very interesting, since
mostly what your code is doing is talking to
cloud services. Without actual services to call,
your code will have to "mock", or pretend to
call, those services - and that means you're not
really testing much of anything.

On the contrary, an end-to-end or smoke test is
run after your API gets deployed. It uses the
real, live URL of your API and makes sure that
it provides the expected responses to a test
call. This indirectly verifies that

1. your Lambda code is working as
expected,

2. permissions and other config are correct
between your gateway, your function,
and your database, and

100



3. all your resources have been deployed
successfully.

An excellent tool for running smoke tests is
called Cypress; it's a Javascript testing
framework that (among other things) lets you
call your API endpoint just like the Javascript
code in your front-end app is doing. The
Cypress test doesn't have to know anything
about how your Lambda function is written, or
what language it's written in, or even that it's a
Lambda function. It just needs to know what
output your URL should yield in response to
input.

Some ideas for things to check in your smoke
test:

● Make sure your API not only returns an
updated value to you, but actually
updates the database

● Make sure your API responds to
unexpected input correctly; what if the
inbound request is not formatted the
right way?

● Make sure you are checking edge cases
in your function logic. What happens if
the visitor count is not initialized (ie, on
the first time the function is invoked?)

101



Helpful resources

Javascript
Another week, another new programming
language, another banquet of learning
resources. You could spend your entire life
reading about Javascript on the internet. I
would focus on the parts that matter for this
project:

● Run through a basic language overview
and syntax tutorial, like this one;

● Learn how to make API calls with
Javascript;

● Learn about how to organize the files in
your website and reference scripts in
HTML

CORS
CORS (cross-origin resource sharing) is the
security feature that will make your web
browser scream at you when you try to call
your API because it's hosted at a different
domain than your resume site, and it'll be the
bane of your existence until you tweak your
API headers to fix it. Here's a good CORS
explainer and tutorial; expect to open a few
tabs and try a few things before you solve this
one, as it's frustrating even for experienced
engineers.

102



Mods

Developer Mod: Playing the Hits
Technically, the visitor counter we've built is a
hit counter; it'll update every time you refresh
your page, even though you're just one unique
visitor. See if you can create a new API method
to only count unique visitors. (Hint: check the
API Gateway request metadata for the IP
address associated with the browser making
the API call.) Add the unique visitor counter to
your homepage and update your tests
accordingly.

● You'll have to decide the timeframe in
which a visitor is counted as a repeat
visitor - daily, weekly, monthly, etc -
before you count them as "unique"
again. This will involve some fun date
math!

● Note: IP addresses may be considered
PII (personally-identifying information) in
some jurisdictions, so if you're nervous
about logging them to a database, you
could consider storing a one-way hash
of the address instead. Here's how to do
that in Python.

● If you want more Javascript practice, try
writing this function in Node.js instead of
Python.

103



DevOps Mod: Browser Up
It turns out that Cypress does a lot more than
just API testing; it's really designed to automate
full "end-to-end" tests against your browser,
like clicking buttons and verifying the contents
of HTML elements after API calls. See if you
can write a test that loads your resume site a
couple of times and confirms the updated
visitor count values in your DOM. (Actually, you
can test anything on the site you want,
including the behavior of buttons and the
content of text. Go wild!)

Security Mod: Wall of Fire
The API we've created has no authentication;
it's a public API, connected to our public
website, which means anyone on the internet
can find it and make requests to it directly.

In one sense this isn't a big deal, since all our
API does is update a counter. But we are still
vulnerable to people who try to

● send malicious API requests in hopes of
getting the API to do other things, like
execute the attacker's code;

● execute a denial-of-service attack (or, as
it's sometimes called in the cloud, a

104



denial-of-wallet attack) by spamming the
API and filling up your credit card with
billions of bogus requests

One way to mitigate these risks is to put a web
application firewall (WAF) such as AWS WAF
in front of our API. Be aware that AWS WAF
doesn't have much of a free tier; the managed
rules will quickly start to cost you about $5.00
per month apiece. If you do decide to set up
AWS WAF for learning purposes, I suggest
using the preconfigured rules, and then use the
bot control features (there's some free tier
here) to deny bots from accessing the API.
Whether or not you actually deploy AWS WAF,
take some time to read and understand the
links above.

Even if you don't want to pay for AWS WAF,
you still need to put some safeguards on your
API. The quick and dirty way to do this is to
implement account-level throttling and rate
limiting on your API. Decide how many
requests you are comfortable allowing your API
to process in a given time period, then set the
thresholds so that you will not exceed them.

Pause to reflect
Take a deep breath - you've done it! While

105



some of the most important learning in this
project is yet to come, you've now built an
entire full-stack web application, front to back -
and that deserves a celebration. But before
you pop the confetti, write down answers to the
questions below while they're still fresh in your
mind.

● What aspect of Chunk 3's work did you
find the most difficult?

● Note one or two problems you
overcame to get the API talking to your
browser; include the error messages or
screenshots of the issues, and write
down what you did to fix them.

● The mods in this section are fairly
open-ended; if you chose one, how far
did you go and why is it an improvement
over the basic spec?

● What's something you'd have done
differently, or added, if you'd had more
time?

Nana's Story: From Tech Support to
Cloud Native Engineer

106



Nana, based in New York City, already had
some technical experience as a help desk
administrator, but needed something more
relevant on his resume to achieve his dream
of getting a full-time cloud engineering job.

Nana says it took him about 4 weeks, coding
about 5 hours each day to complete the
challenge. "It was the kind of project that
established full-stack as well as DevOps
knowledge."

About his interviewing experience, Nana
noted: "The resume challenge helped me
demonstrate important skills, particularly
understanding of CICD automation, DNS
(and how the internet works), SCM/git, and
serverless architecture. Hiring managers
seemed to appreciate rounded developers
who also had some experience with agile
and the DevOps culture."

Nana used his first round of interviews,
mostly with Fortune 500 companies, to
identify remaining gaps in his knowledge,
then took a 4-month break from interviewing
to pursue more hands-on learning (including
the ETL challenge provided later in this

107



book!). About six months after initially starting
the Cloud Resume Challenge, he landed a
job as a cloud native engineer at Accenture.

For future challengers, Nana offers this
wisdom: "Get hands-on, and don't rush it!"

108



Chunk 4: Automation / CI
Your website will still look the same at the end
of this section - but the underlying deployment
process will look much different. You're going
to represent your cloud resources as
configuration, so they can be deployed
identically in any environment - and you're
going to automate those deployments using a
CI (continuous integration) pipeline.

(Challenge Steps 12, 14, 15)

12. Infrastructure as Code
You should not be configuring your API
resources – the DynamoDB table, the API
Gateway, the Lambda function – manually,
by clicking around in the AWS console.
Instead, define them in an AWS Serverless
Application Model (SAM) template and
deploy them using the AWS SAM CLI. This is
called “infrastructure as code” or IaC. It
saves you time in the long run.

14. CI/CD (Back end)
Set up GitHub Actions such that when you
push an update to your Serverless
Application Model template or Python code,
your Python tests get run. If the tests pass,

109



the SAM application should get packaged
and deployed to AWS.

15. CI/CD (Front end)
Create a second GitHub repository for your
website code. Create GitHub Actions such
that when you push new website code, the
S3 bucket automatically gets updated. (You
may need to invalidate your CloudFront
cache in the code as well.) Important note:
DO NOT commit AWS credentials to source
control! Bad hats will find them and use them
against you!

How to approach this chunk
I encouraged you to use the AWS web
interface in the previous sections because I
think it's the best way to explore cloud services
that are brand new to you. But as the challenge
prompt states, this isn't the way professional
cloud engineers deploy services. For that, you
need infrastructure-as-code (IaC).

If I got my API working using the
web console, do I really need to
go back and write automation?

110



YES. Representing cloud resources as code
using config tools like CloudFormation or
Terraform is probably the most characteristic
task in a cloud engineer's day-to-day job.

There are parts of this challenge you can
hand-wave a little bit (nobody really cares if
you kinda stole your static site template from
somewhere else, for example).

But you cannot skip over the infrastructure
automation piece. It is the most relevant job
skill you will practice in this entire challenge.

The original AWS version of the challenge
recommends using AWS SAM as your IaC tool.
I chose this because SAM (which stands for
"Serverless Application Model") is specifically
designed to make deploying serverless
resources easier. However, SAM isn't all that
widely used in the industry outside of certain
AWS-heavy shops, so if you want to get
maximum value from this part of the project I
would recommend substituting one of the
following IaC tools:

111



AWS-specific infrastructure-as-code tools

CloudFormation
SAM is actually just a slightly more abstracted
version of CloudFormation, AWS's OG IaC
service, which is a little gnarlier to work with
but will let you automate most AWS
resources–if you're willing to write a whole lot
of YAML. These days, I get the sense that most
people prefer to let a higher-level tool generate
their CloudFormation templates for them. A
tool such as …

The CDK
Technically the CDK ("Cloud Development Kit")
also produces CloudFormation templates as
output, but the process of getting there is quite
different: you define your infrastructure
resources in your favorite language such as
Javascript or Python, and the CDK translates
your "constructs" into YAML for you. An
up-and-coming approach beloved by many
developer-first shops.

Other infrastructure-as-code tools

Terraform
Using Terraform as the IaC tool is by far the
most common mod people make to the

112



original Cloud Resume Challenge spec, and
with good reason; it's the rare example of a
multi-cloud tool that everybody uses. Whether
your DevOps team works with AWS, Azure, or
Google Cloud, Terraform (and the other
HashiCorp tools like Vault, Nomad, and
Consul) are likely to put in an appearance.
Terraform uses its own domain-specific
configuration language called HCL, though
they're adding programming language support
as well.

Pulumi
Sort of the cloud-agnostic version of the CDK:
define your AWS resources in your favorite
language and deploy them, no YAML required.
I was an early reviewer of Pulumi several years
ago and was initially unimpressed, but I'm
happy to eat crow now; the project's clearly
found a niche and seems to have some good
ideas. Note that Pulumi probably has the
smallest userbase of the tools listed in this
section, but they do have a super friendly and
engaged community, and my impression is that
they're pretty well-known in the DevOps world
at this point.

113



Before you choose one of these tools, take a
few minutes to read up on them and compare.
You will want to understand the following:

● How do these tools manage state? (If
you make a manual change to your
infrastructure after deploying, can the
tool figure it out?)

● How do they interact with the underlying
cloud APIs?

● What happens if you close your laptop
in the middle of a deployment?

● The third-party tools tend to have their
own hosted versions such as Terraform
Cloud; what value might these provide
over just deploying to AWS directly?

Setting up your deployment pipeline
We are using GitHub Actions to automate our
deployments in this challenge because they
are free (for our purposes) and tightly
integrated with our existing GitHub
repositories. I would suggest you create a
deployment workflow that looks something like
this:

● Build step. Package up your
function code, making sure to
install any needed dependencies.
Your output at this stage should

114



be a zipped-up Lambda function
artifact and a config file ready to
deploy your resources.

● Deploy step. Run your IaC tool
to deploy the resources in AWS.

● Smoke test step. Run your
Cypress API tests to make sure
the deployed API does what you
think it should. (Here's a handy
pre-made GitHub action for
running Cypress tests, so you
don't have to install Cypress
itself.)

Helpful resources
IaC
DigitalOcean has a useful illustrated article to
help you visualize basic IaC concepts like state
management.

CI/CD (Continuous Integration / Continuous
Deployment)
Read up on trunk-based development, the
modern way of managing code changes in a
repository. Unless you have other collaborators
on this project, your workflow will probably look
more or less like trunk-based development by
default.

115



GitHub Actions has a nice learning section
that's worth reading before you get hands-on.
Mainly you'll want to be sure you're handling
secrets appropriately. The old way was to save
long-lived AWS credentials as GitHub Secrets.
As you've hopefully picked up by now, it's
security best practice to avoid long-lived
credentials as much as possible. Instead, use
GitHub's OIDC provider to fetch temporary
credentials for your actions.

You might want to be aware of several other
CI/CD tools that are commonly used in the
industry:

● GitLab
● Jenkins
● CircleCI
● AWS CodeBuild / CodePipeline (mostly

in AWS-heavy shops)
● Azure DevOps (formerly known as

Microsoft Team Foundation Server)

Mods

Developer Mod / Security Mod: Chain
Reaction
(I've open-sourced this mod; you can
contribute to it in the official Cloud Resume
Challenge project repository.)

116



The software supply chain is everything
involved in getting code from your laptop to
production: the code and configuration you
write as well as any underlying packages and
libraries they rely on (also known as
"dependencies"). Securing the software supply
chain, particularly these dependencies, from
compromise is an emerging discipline in
modern software development and infosec.
The stakes couldn't be higher - just check out
this list of recent high-profile supply chain
attacks.

In this challenge, you'll extend your Cloud
Resume Challenge project to add protections
to your code and dependencies.

Initial reading

● Check out Microsoft's software supply
chain best practices. These
recommendations are based around
NuGet, the package manager for
Microsoft's .NET ecosystem, but much
of the advice generalizes well.

● Take a whirl through the Cloud Native
Computing Foundation's software
supply chain repo, particularly the
compromise definitions and the
whitepaper.

117



● Here's a helpful video walking through
supply chain attacks in the Kubernetes
ecosystem.

● Get familiar with GitHub's security
features; a decent percentage of
real-world software supply chain
protection is just "turning the right knobs
in GitHub", it seems.

Challenge steps

1. Sign your Git commits to both the front
end and back end resume repositories.
You'll need to set up a GPG key to do
this. You'll know it's working when you
see the "Verified" badge next to the
commit in the GitHub console.

2. Use status checks to ensure that only
signed commits can be merged into
your repository.

3. Set up automated code scanning
using GitHub's CodeQL code analysis
tool on GitHub Actions. Note that you
will need to make your repositories
public for this to work. You should
automatically run the code scan any
time a pull request is merged to your
main branch and fail the merge if
security issues at level "High" or higher

118



are detected. You should also guard
against dependency decay by running
the scan on a schedule once per month.
You will have to edit a config file to
adjust the schedule.

4. Generate an SBOM (Software Bill of
Materials). An SBOM is a manifest that
lists all the packages shipped in your
container image or other code
environment. As part of the build step in
your back-end repository's CI/CD
pipeline, generate an SBOM attestation
file for your deployment artifact using
the open source tool Syft. (If you are
shipping your code and dependencies
as a zip file on AWS Lambda, not using
a container image, you should still be
able to point Syft at the unzipped
deployment artifact to get an
attestation.)

5. Automate at least one additional
vulnerability check in your CI/CD
workflow. Using the package list in your
SBOM, write some automation to run at
least one other dependency check
besides the GitHub automated
scanning. Vulnerability databases are
not always equally reliable, and it's a
good idea to check a couple of sources

119



to provide defense-in-depth. Grype is a
scanner that works well with Syft (and
has its own GitHub Action). You could
also consult an API such as OSV. Fail
the build with an appropriate error
message if you encounter a
compromised dependency.

6. AWS Lambda, which does not use a
container-based deployment artifact by
default, has its own code signing
feature. Add code signing into your
infrastructure-as-code definition for your
API.

7. Draw a diagram showing how code
flows through your system and where
attacks can be detected / mitigated.
Reflect on where you may still have
risks, and what other steps you might
take if this were a more sensitive
project, or involved multiple
collaborators.

DevOps Mod: All The World's A Stage
Thus far, everything we've built is living in one
environment: our "production" environment
that's serving live traffic. This is not ideal
because any bug we deploy through our fancy
automated pipeline will immediately break our
site. Real-world applications usually have one

120



or more additional "stages", pre-production
environments where the developers deploy
code in hopes of catching and fixing bugs
before they are released to users. Perform the
following steps to transform your CI/CD
pipeline into a multi-stage workflow.

Important note 1: Some AWS services, like API
Gateway and Lambda, support the concept of
multiple stages within the same deployed
resource. I recommend that you do not mess
with these features. The cleanest, safest, and
most straightforward way to implement multiple
staging environments in AWS is literally to
have a separate AWS account for each version
of your environment. If you have used the AWS
Organizations model of account structuring I
recommended back in the "Setup and Safety"
section, this should be pretty straightforward to
set up.

1. Set up an AWS account within your
organization strictly for testing.

2. Add steps to your GitHub Actions that
deploy code changes to the test
environment on any pull request to the
main branch, and only allow a merge
to main and a production deployment
if all your tests and security checks

121



pass. (This is the ultimate stress test of
your infrastructure-as-code setup - you
should be able to deploy your whole
application into a fresh environment with
no manual steps necessary! If you can't,
keep tweaking your IaC until you can!)
You should continue to run your
end-to-end tests in your production
environment deployment, but linting on
your code and dependencies can be
limited to your test environment, as it
would be redundant to run twice.

3. But wait! You may have multiple
different collaborators checking out your
code and creating pull requests to main
at the same time. Make sure that each
pull request has a fresh copy of your
test infrastructure associated with it.
There are two ways you could go about
this:

a. Theoretically, you could automate
the creation of a whole new AWS
account for each pull request. I
think this is a bit overkill.

b. You can deploy a fresh copy of
your site in the shared test
environment for each pull
request. If you do this, you'll have
to make sure that any resources

122



you create have unique names -
don't hardcode them in your IaC
templates. Wherever possible, let
AWS generate its own resource
names for you to minimize
collisions. Where you have to
create names, inject your commit
ID or something to ensure you
get a unique one.

Important note 2: The one thing that will be
different about your production environment
compared to your test environment is that your
test websites will not be using your custom
domain name. This is another thing you'll have
to account for in your automation - make sure
your Cypress tests in the test environment can
find the right CloudFront URL to reach.

4. In the real world, code changes often
require human approval before being
released to production. Experiment
with adding a manual approval step
to your workflow after all tests have
passed.

5. Think about the performance of your
pipeline. Do you have any steps running
sequentially that could be parallelized?
Are you installing any tools during the

123



build process that should be packaged
as part of the underlying action
container?

6. Cleanup time! Lots of old test
environments sitting around will
eventually start costing you money, even
in the serverless world. Plus, it's a good
idea to regularly build your test
environment from scratch, just to ensure
that manual drift hasn't crept in. Add an
additional step to your GitHub
Actions workflow that tears down
your test resources after a
successful merge to main. (You
should be able to run this in parallel with
your production deployment.)

Stephanie's Story: From Bank
Manager to Cloud Engineer

"I took on the Cloud Resume Challenge
because I wanted to gain real life experience
in a brand new field. The challenge tested
me on whether a career change was really
what I wanted, as well as how quickly I could
learn something new.

124



"The challenge took me about 150 hours to
complete over about 6 weeks (though I really
started hitting it hard in the last 3 weeks or
so). It took me longer in part because I
chose to make the challenge my own by
doing my automation in Terraform instead
of SAM.

"As it turned out, this was one of my best
decisions! I was able to speak to real life
scenarios based on what I had faced during
the process. One that stands out the most
was a troubleshooting exercise I was given
during an interview. I was able to answer
quickly and confidently because it was
something I had run into during my own
resume challenge.

"After a 3-month job search, I am now an
Associate Cloud Engineer for iRobot, and I
freaking love it! I learn something new every
day. Love my team, love the work and enjoy
challenging myself every day."

Pause to reflect
And with that, you've completed the technical
steps of the Cloud Resume Challenge. This is

125



no small feat. Particularly if you are new to
cloud, and emphatically if you are new to tech,
you have beaten the odds and joined a very
select group of people who have pulled off this
difficult project. Sincerely, from the bottom of
my heart, wow. All that's left is to write the blog
post (and get certified if you haven't yet), so
make sure to take a few notes before you head
to the next section:

● What aspect of Chunk 4's work did you
find the most difficult?

● Which IaC tool did you choose? Why?
(List a couple of specific
considerations.)

● Note one or two problems you
overcame to get your cloud resources
automatically deployed; include the error
messages or screenshots of the issues,
and write down what you did to fix them.

● Both the mods for this section are long
and gnarly. Each would be worth a blog
on their own. Make sure to capture what
steps you took and anything unusual
you ran into.

● What's something you'd have done
differently, or added, if you'd had more
time?

126



127



Chunk 5: The blog … and beyond
It's all about the blog now! (And maybe some
catchup on previous sections, if you're behind.)

(Challenge Step 16)

Finally, in the text of your resume, you should
link a short blog post describing some things
you learned while working on this project.
Dev.to or Hashnode is a great place to
publish if you don’t have your own blog.

How to approach this chunk
After weeks of work, multiple late nights, you've
finally finished the entire Cloud Resume
Challenge. It works from front to back. You've
even passed a certification or two. You'd be
perfectly happy never to think about any of this
again. The last thing you want to do is sit down
in front of the computer again and … write
about it.

I know the feeling, believe me. (I've felt it plenty
when writing this book!) Cloud Resume
Champions often complain, only half
tongue-in-cheek, that doing the blog writeup is
the hardest part of the challenge. I am

128



imploring you, though, not to skip this step. It's
kind of the punchline of the whole challenge.
It's a signal to the world that you are
participating in the cloud community, that you
are giving back to future challengers, and that
you are serious about leveling up your cloud
career.

Recruiters may read it. Hiring managers may
read it. Basically, the upside is unlimited and
the downside is nil.

So just suck it up and write the dang blog, then
share it on LinkedIn and Twitter. Worst case,
you end up with good notes on what you built
so that you can review them when prepping for
interviews.

Realistically, you'll get some love from your
network, and a few followers who are
interested in what you build next - which is a
great kickstart for a blogging habit that will
grow your career over time.

Best case … well, best case, your blog goes
viral like Daniel Singletary's. I'm not promising
this will happen to you. But, having reviewed
hundreds of challenger blogs, I can provide a
few tips to help you stand out from the crowd.

129



Include a diagram
This is the #1 pro tip for a great blog, right
here. People love pictures. Make a little
architecture diagram of what you built in
Lucidchart or draw.io. Share it as a standalone
image on social media along with the link to the
article. It will get engagement, guaranteed.
(Here's an example of a challenge blog that
makes great use of images.)

Make it about you, not about the challenge
The Cloud Resume Challenge itself has been
explained and analyzed to death by the last six
hundred bloggers. Your troubleshooting
experiences are probably not unique. What is
unique is you. Why are you undertaking the
challenge? What unusual skills do you bring to
the table?

Go back and review Daniel's Plumbers Guide
to Cloud again. Notice how he reflects on his
plumbing skills and how they helped him learn
to code. What life experiences do you have
that helped you crack the challenge? Another
challenge champion blog that I really like talks
about the author's experience with mainframes,

130



and how it felt to transition to serverless
applications. That's an interesting story!

Other marvelously unique champion blogs I've
seen recently include this dentist who
compared CORS errors to pulling teeth, or an
audio engineer reflecting on how his
experience mixing live events translated to
cloud. Take a minute to read these stories and
think about yours.

Framing your blog as a journey of personal
discovery and growth, rather than a technical
tutorial, will help you get more traction when
you share it.

Consider focusing on your mods
While many people have completed the Cloud
Resume Challenge, not too many have gone
above and beyond and completed the mods
suggested in this book. If you followed, say, the
security track, consider framing your blog post
around that - "How I improved the security of
the Cloud Resume Challenge" is an interesting
post in and of itself.

Likewise, you could scope your blog to a part
of the challenge where you spent extra time. If
you did a bunch of work building an "account

131



vending machine" to create new AWS accounts
for your CI/CD process, that's your blog right
there. It's often better to be small-scoped and
detailed rather than all over the place.

Don't ramble on
There's a famous line, "If I'd had more time, I'd
have written less." Short and to the point wins
in our hyperinflated attention economy. If your
blog is more than a thousand words, you're
probably rambling on. Save your in-depth
observations on every error message you
Googled over the past six weeks for your
personal notes. Just focus on the takeaways
that can benefit everyone.

Tag me
Seriously! I read and comment on just about
every single Cloud Resume Challenge blog
that I get tagged in on LinkedIn or Twitter (I'm
@forrestbrazeal in both places). I'm always
happy to help boost your reach.

132



Ian's Story: Writing a Blog That Gets
Exposure

Ian Cahall's May 2022 post caught my
attention as a strong example of a Cloud
Resume Challenge blog. I reached out to him
a few weeks later to hear about his strategy -
and his results.

Forrest: I noticed you chose to write your
blog post as a LinkedIn post rather than
on a separate site like Dev.to or Medium -
why did you decide to do this, and do you
think it made a difference?

Ian: I actually think using LinkedIn's Article
Publishing tool serves a number of purposes
when writing a blog like this. First, the editor
is easy and simple to use, so there's a low
barrier to entry in making a good looking
post. Second, and importantly, discoverability
is significantly boosted as it integrates your
profile and personal branding throughout the
post. Finally, the out-of-the-box analytics that
LinkedIn provides offer some benefits other
sites won't - like viewer demographics (job
title, company), impressions, etc. My CRC

133



post got WAY more engagement than most
of my other posts both in viewership and
interactions (likes, comments,
click-throughs).

Do you consider yourself an experienced
blogger, or was the process of creating
the writeup new for you?

I'm not incredibly experienced in blogging
specifically, but I've got some experience
with Social Media presence and branding
both professionally and personally. Writing a
post that was specifically tailored to a
technical project like this was new, though.

What happened after you published the
post?

In the ~4 weeks since I published the post,
two major shifts have occurred from a career
perspective:

● I've been contacted an average of 5-6
times per week by recruiters for open
opportunities. Not all have been
cloud-related, but the increase in
contacts has been drastic for both
cloud and non-cloud IT role

134



opportunities. I'm preparing for my first
cloud security interview as I write this.

● I've made connections with incredibly
supportive members of the cloud
community who see completion of the
challenge as instant credibility and are
willing to refer me or make
introductions in places it makes sense.

Helpful resources

Blogging platforms
If your resume site itself has blogging capability
- perhaps because you used a static site
generator with a blogging theme - then the best
possible thing to do is host your blog there,
under your own domain name. "Owning your
own words" helps drive traffic to your site over
time, and could be the start of an ongoing
blogging habit that will pay all sorts of career
dividends.

If you don't want to host your own blog, don't
worry - there can also be exposure advantages
to publishing on a third-party blogging platform.
At the moment I think Hashnode is my top
recommendation, followed by Dev.to. Medium
has declined in quality in my opinion, but you

135



may find their network effects somewhat
helpful.

As indicated in Ian's story above, a lot of
people get the best traction by cross-posting
their story directly to LinkedIn as an article.

Writing help
I've heard good things about Philip Kiely's
Writing for Software Developers (a paid
resource). You can also feel free to share a
draft of your blog in the CRC Discord server for
feedback at any time.

Pause to reflect
You're done. You did it. The Cloud Resume
Challenge is behind you, and I couldn't be
prouder of your achievement.

Make sure to share your blog on social media,
and then take a well-deserved rest.

The only question left is the biggest one of all -
what's next?

136



Part 3: From challenge to
career

137



You did it. You really did it. Congratulations.
You completed the entire Cloud Resume
Challenge. You wrote the blog. Maybe you
even did a couple of the extra mods in this
book.

And maybe you did all that work just for fun.
(I've met a few who have! No judgment, but
you're cut from different cloth than most of us,
that's for sure.)

No, it's much more likely that you completed
the challenge with bigger things in mind. A
promotion. A better job. Maybe even your first
job in cloud. And that achievement is
absolutely within your grasp.

While the challenges in this book can be a
great advantage that set you apart from other
job candidates, you have to know how to use
them, and how to fill in the other gaps hiring
managers may be interested in.

In the final section of this book, I'll share
several essay-style pieces to help you connect
the dots between the Cloud Resume Challenge
and a cloud career.

138



What is a "cloud job", anyway?

You probably bought this book because you
want to get a "cloud job". Perhaps you currently
have some sort of IT job that doesn't seem
especially cloudy to you; or perhaps you are
working in a field that is only literally
cloud-related, like weather reporting or aircraft
maintenance, and now you would like to start
using the cloud as a metaphor.

Odds are, whatever your background, you're
interested in a cloud job because you have
heard that people who work in the cloud make
excellent salaries and likely will continue doing
so for a long time to come. And this is pretty
much true. You may have seen the industry
studies that show people with cloud
certifications earning six-figure salaries after
just a couple years of experience. You have
certainly noticed that seemingly every single
aspect of your life has migrated to the cloud,
from your family photos to your pizza orders,
and somebody is going to have to do the job of
maintaining our digital lives for the next few
decades.

139



The history of the cloud job
So what is a cloud job, anyway? To answer
that, we need to dig into a little bit of history.

The first IT jobs
In the beginning, there were sysadmins.
System administrators guarded access to the
UNIX-based corporate computer systems of
the 1970s and 80s. They installed programs,
made backups, tuned databases and networks,
and figured out how to solve strange errors
with manuals in hand, long before
StackOverflow. Their jobs were lonely, and
their knowledge was often tribal or documented
only in their own heads. Their natural
adversaries were developers: the people who
wrote the software programs that sysadmins
had to figure out how to keep running.

The "golden age" of IT: everybody has their
own servers!
Over time, as companies moved from
mainframes to client-server setups where
every employee had their own PC, IT also
became more specialized, with the central role
of operating computer systems splitting into
many functions:

140



● Database administrators (DBAs), who
installed, backed up, and tuned the
performance of centralized database
systems like Oracle and SQL Server;

● Network admins, who configured
hardware devices called routers,
switches, and firewalls to ensure that
information traveled quickly and safely
both within the company's internal
network and across the public internet;

● Storage admins, who managed the
arrays of storage disks that physically
contained the data used by applications;

● Linux or Windows system admins,
who installed and maintained the
operating systems (OSes) used by
application and database servers, as
well as the applications running on top
of the OS;

● Security admins, who specialized in
keeping systems free of malware and
unauthorized people from accessing
sensitive data;

● Corporate IT admins, who made sure
everybody in the company had the
hardware, software, and access
necessary to do their job;

● And, of course, the customer-facing
support teams, including the

141



much-abused help desk that handled
basic user requests like password
resets and computer restarts.

A former coworker of mine once referred to this
era, wistfully, as the "golden age of IT." And
maybe it felt that way. Every company had their
own full-stack IT staff! You could find a job
managing servers for a local pet food
manufacturer just as easily as at a Silicon
Valley software company. But there were plenty
of problems under the surface.

Unlike the old-school sysadmins, who mostly
typed commands into text-based terminals,
these new "ops people" often used
point-and-click GUI-based management tools,
many created by Microsoft. But software
developers and quality assurance testers, the
people who wrote and validated the programs
running on top of all this infrastructure,
continued to exist in their own separate worlds,
often just handing off code for deployment with
little context on how it worked or why.

That meant that releasing new software
features was frequently a manual process,
taking weeks or even months to roll out code
changes to users. (You can read a gruesomely

142



realistic account of one of these releases in
Gene Kim, George Spafford, and Kevin Behr's
essential novel The Phoenix Project.)

During the late 1990s and early 2000s, the first
successful internet companies like Google and
eBay began to explore more efficient, reliable
ways of delivering their biggest competitive
advantage - their websites - to enormous
numbers of users all over the world. Manual
tweaks to small numbers of servers just
wouldn't cut it anymore. They realized that the
creation of infrastructure - servers, networks,
databases, and so on - needed to be
automated just like user applications.  Huge
datacenters sprung up to handle this user load,
and with them, new ways of "virtualizing"
infrastructure resources so that they could be
brought online using code and configuration
files.

Increasingly, it became clear that the next
generation of IT professionals - those DBAs,
network admins, and security folk, plus plenty
of old-school sysadmins - would have to learn
to code. They would have to retire their rickety
scripts and work much more closely with
developers to adopt standardized automation
tools for building and releasing software.

143



Otherwise, the massive scale of these hosted
data centers - which some people were
beginning to call "the cloud" - would flatten
them.

The emergence of the cloud job
This new alliance between developers and
operators became known as DevOps, and it
remains an uneasy and much-misunderstood
arrangement. But what it has definitely
accomplished is a massive shift, really a split,
in opportunities for people with an IT
operations skillset.

There are still plenty of traditional IT jobs out
there: managing databases, servers, networks,
or security for companies whose infrastructure
may be hosted in their own data center.
Change is slow, and these jobs are not going
away anytime soon, but they tend to be less
well-paid and easily disrupted; increasingly,
they are doing manual work that is handled
better by cloud services.

(On the flip side, the cloud companies
themselves have plenty of jobs for ops
specialists now! We've just moved from every
company needing a full-stack IT staff, to mostly

144



software infrastructure companies needing
those specialists.)

And then you have the "cloud jobs" - designing
and configuring infrastructure for companies
whose applications run in the public clouds like
AWS, Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud. These
jobs typically require more programming skill -
you won't survive by pointing-and-clicking - and
a broader understanding of how systems are
architected for the cloud. That's why they're
more valuable in the marketplace. Some
example roles in this new world include:

● Cloud engineers, DevOps engineers,
site reliability engineers,
infrastructure engineers, or platform
engineers - titles often used
interchangeably, but with very different
responsibilities depending on the
company. At some companies, these
jobs are really software engineering
jobs, embedded on software
development teams, with a specialty in
automating and maintaining the cloud
infrastructure that applications run on. At
other companies, you may find yourself
on a "platform team" that mostly creates
cloud guidance, guardrails, and tooling

145



for development teams to consume. And
at some places, who've paid lip service
to the concepts of "cloud" and "DevOps"
but never really embraced the intent
behind the buzzwords, you may find that
you're pretty much still on a traditional
ops team.

● Cloud architects or cloud solutions
architects, who take higher-level
responsibility for designing and
implementing distributed systems that
perform well at cloud scale;

● Release engineers, a subset of
DevOps engineers at software
companies who are hyper-focused on
streamlining the pipelines that ship code
to users;

● Cloud network administrators, who
design the software configurations for
network resources in the cloud;

● Cloud data engineers (a
fast-burgeoning specialty!), who design
the data pipelines and compute arrays
used in data science and machine
learning workflows;

● Cloud security engineers, who stay on
top of the unique security challenges of
applications running on cloud-hosted
infrastructure;

146



● And, of course, the customer-facing
cloud support teams, including the
much-abused help desk that handles
basic user requests like password
resets and computer restarts. (That's
never going away - sorry!)

So, after all of that: what is a "cloud job"?

My opinion is that being a cloud engineer - my
catch-all term that encompasses most of the
roles listed above - means learning to become
a great operator. In that sense, the job hasn't
changed since the sysadmins of the 70s. Your
role is to think critically and constantly about
how to ship code to production more quickly,
safely, and reliably. To run systems that are
resilient to failure and - just as important - able
to seamlessly scale to handle success. If you
can do that, you'll have great job security no
matter what titles they're using in 5 years.

What does a "day in the life" look like
for a cloud engineer?
As with most technical questions, the lazy
answer is "it depends". But here are some
things you might expect to be doing on a
typical day as a mid-level cloud engineer. (As a
junior, replace most of these things with "sitting

147



next to the mid-level engineer, watching them
do it, and asking questions.")

● Writing automation for cloud resources
such as servers, databases, and
security policies

● Creating automated pipelines to build
and release software changes

● Writing code to build tools that
developers in your organization will use
to help them create and deploy cloud
software

● Getting an alert to your phone that a
cloud system is misbehaving, and
jumping on a call with two other
engineers to figure out what is going
wrong and fix it quickly

● Writing some automation to migrate an
old key management server to run on
cloud services

● Doing what Charity Majors, in her
essential piece on the future of "ops
jobs", calls vendor engineering -
solving a business problem by
evaluating and gluing together various
tools and services created by cloud
providers and other SaaS vendors

● Spending a lot of time reading
documentation trying to figure out how a

148



new service works - because the cloud
changes fast and there's more to know
than anyone can hold in their head

● Probably sitting in some meetings,
attending some trainings, and doing
other corporate desk-job things

Hey, many of those things sound like steps in
the Cloud Resume Challenge! (Except the part
about meetings. The Cloud Resume Challenge
contains zero required meetings.)

Is there actually such a thing as an
"entry-level cloud job"?
If you ask this question on Reddit, as people
do every day, you will probably hear a
resounding NO. "Get some traditional IT
experience first," many will say. "You can't build
cloud systems without understanding the way
we built things before the cloud."

In my opinion, this advice is gatekeeping
nonsense. The whole point of cloud was
supposed to be creating higher-level,
abstracted ways of building so that new
engineers don't have to recapitulate the entire
history of IT on their resumes in order to get
hired. If there really is no such thing as a junior
cloud engineer position after 15 years of

149



modern cloud evolution, that's a pretty sad
indictment of our industry.

But thankfully, there IS such a thing as an
entry-level cloud job. Throughout this book,
you'll read stories from a number of Cloud
Resume Challenge graduates who've
transitioned to associate-level cloud or DevOps
engineering roles from non-technical
backgrounds. These stories are inspiring, but
they're not miraculous. You can do this too.

It will not necessarily be easy, and it may take
longer than you'd like. The grain of truth behind
the conventional Reddit wisdom is that lots of
teams don't know how to hire, support, and
develop junior engineers. That problem is
much older than cloud and affects all areas of
tech - and it's even worse in our current
remote-heavy work world.

For what it's worth, I find that big companies
tend to have better hiring processes and
onboarding support for junior engineers than
startups do. For example, the three big cloud
providers all have great programs for bringing
on associate cloud solutions architects - and if
you can complete this challenge, you'll know

150



many of the things you need to excel in an
interview.

Remember, every person trying to tell you you
don't belong in this industry yet was once a
junior too. They made it because somebody
took a chance on them. And despite what
Reddit says, there are chance-taking hiring
managers in tech. (My first boss was one of
them.) Often, those managers come from
non-traditional backgrounds too. They
understand how to mentor, and they're looking
for people who are self-directed,
self-motivated, and aren't afraid to learn. By
doing projects like the Cloud Resume
Challenge, you'll start to increase the chances
of connecting with one of those people and
getting your first big chance - so that someday,
you too can pass that chance along to others.

151



Getting unstuck: the underrated
skill of asking for help

Here's the most common way people start a
question about their Cloud Resume Challenge
project: "Is it cheating if I …?" (...use a static
site generator, look at someone else's code
repository, work on the challenge with a friend,
etc, etc.)

I try to help those people understand that this
is the wrong way to frame the question.
"Cheating" is a concept from school. We are
not in school here.

The goal of the project is to learn, so if your
approach to solving the Cloud Resume
Challenge is to copy and paste someone else's
project without deeply understanding what you
are doing and why, then the only person being
cheated is you. You will not have interesting
stories to tell in a job interview; worse, you will
not find out if cloud building is really something
you enjoy.

But assuming you are approaching the
challenge in good faith, I would not be too
worried about consulting existing resources like

152



blogs, tutorials, and other challengers. In fact,
figuring out how to make appropriate use of
help is one of the most valuable - and
underrated - skills you can hone through this
project.

Again, we're not in school here. In the
professional world of IT, there are no bonus
points for cloistering away in an ivory tower
and figuring out a difficult problem all by
yourself. You will likely be working on a team
made up of people with different strengths and
weaknesses, and your primary goal will be to
solve problems quickly and adequately, rather
than individually. That means strategically
leveraging the help of teammates or internet
resources who may know more than you.

But other people's help is a constrained
resource; they don't have unlimited bandwidth
to assist you, and in fact will be significantly
MORE likely to lend a hand if you have done
some investigating on your own. (We might call
this the "God helps those who help
themselves" model of debugging.) So knowing
when and how to escalate a problem is critical.

Let's use the Cloud Resume Challenge as an
example scenario to walk through how we can

153



practice proper asking-for-help skills. Suppose
you're trying to get the visitor counter working
on your resume site, but when you refresh the
web page, the counter does not update.

What NOT to do: The Well of Despair
The worst thing you can do in this situation is
to just start changing random things in your
code, or Googling broad queries like
"Javascript fetch statement not working". The
responses to that search are probably not
going to yield specific information that's
relevant to your problem. Keep going down this
rabbit hole, and you'll find yourself on the tenth
page of search results, reading an unanswered
Tom's Hardware forum post from 2003. This is
how you get Stuck with a capital S: at the
bottom of a deep well, with no handholds or
even a shaft of light to give you hope you might
find a way out, as hours turn into days. It's
frustrating and demoralizing, both to you and (if
you carry this style of troubleshooting over into
a job) to your manager. Believe me, I know;
I've been down that well myself.

Three steps to get back on track
To get out of the Well of Despair, you need a
plan.

154



1. Set a time limit to get yourself
unstuck

Recognizing when you're really blocked, and
that spending more time beating your head
against the problem isn't going to do any more
good, is an important skill that comes with
practice. In the meantime, it's not a bad idea to
set a timer: "If I can't figure out why my visitor
counter isn't updating after 30 minutes, I'm
going to ask for help."

Within that 30 minutes, your goal should be to
break down your big problem (my visitor
counter isn't working) into the smallest problem
you can (I am getting this weird error message
and I don't understand what it means). Some
basic troubleshooting steps to try:

● Get comfortable with the developer
tools in your browser. Right-click in
Chrome and click "Inspect", and a whole
new window on the world opens up to
you. Your Javascript isn't behaving?
Look in the Console tab and see if an
error message appears. Your CSS
doesn't seem to be applying to your
HTML? Check the "Sources" tab and
see if it really got downloaded from your

155



CDN. Your API isn't returning what you
thought? Explore the "Network" tab and
see what request you really sent and
what response you got.

● Don't gloss over error messages. I
see lots and lots of questions in the
Cloud Resume Challenge Discord
server that boil down to "I got a stack
trace; now what do I do?" Answer: read
the stack trace! It looks scary, but most
of it is just pointing you to the line of
code that broke, and there will usually
be an error message at that line
explaining what happened. Is it saying
something about authentication?
Sounds like you have a permissions
issue. Is it saying that the hash key you
referenced doesn't exist? Sounds like
the object you're working with doesn't
have the data you expected; you should
log that object and find out what's
actually in it. Which leads to:

● Log like a lumberjack. In the world of
serverless computing, you can't SSH
into a server; your window into what's
happening is limited to the logging
statements you emit from your code.
Log the contents of objects and the

156



responses of API calls until you
understand the behavior of your code.

● Shorten your feedback loop. If it takes
5 minutes to rebuild and deploy your
code to the cloud every time you test a
code tweak, you're going to make slow
progress. Look into setting up a local
development environment for your code
so that you can "fail faster".

If the timer dings and you still haven't made
much progress on fixing the problem, then it's
time to…

2. Formulate a specific question
Here's the wrong way to ask a question: "My
visitor counter isn't updating, can anyone help
me?" That question wouldn't get very good
results if you typed it into Google, and it's not
going to inspire many humans to sit down with
you and figure it out from scratch either. It's too
general. Instead, try a question like this: "My
API returns 0 to the browser when I request the
visitor count, but I can see the count updating
in the database - here is my function code, can
anybody see where the problem might be?"

That question has several good qualities:

157



● It describes what you would expect to
see happening (the browser's visitor
count widget updating) versus what is
actually happening (returning 0)

● It includes a couple of things you've
already tried (checked the API
response, checked the database), to
help narrow down the source of the
issue

● It gives enough context for someone
to help (the function code), rather than
asking them to guess.

I would suggest typing out your question two or
three times before putting it in the CRC Discord
server or messaging it to a friend, just to make
sure it includes these attributes - and also
because it's hilarious how often just carefully
writing out your question forces you to think
through it systematically, which leads to you
solving your own problem without needing to
wait on anyone else.

If you find that you can't express your question
coherently - say, because your question is
"how do I write Javascript?" - then it's time to
go back and do a little more learning, maybe
run through a video course or a tutorial on the

158



technology in question, before you tackle this
problem.

3. Build relationships
The most reliable way of getting help,
especially from strangers on internet forums, is
simply "being a person people want to help,"
which starts with asking good questions but
also includes being a positive contributor to the
community. Don't be the person who always
takes but never gives; stick around and answer
other people's questions too. It turns out that
researching or troubleshooting someone else's
error is also a great way to learn - and great
job practice, too.

Even if you do all these things, you may still
occasionally find yourself staring into the Well
of Despair. Google's no help, your
troubleshooting skills are maxed out, and
nobody's responding to your question in the
Discord server. If that happens, I would
suggest getting up from your screen, going
outside, and delegating the problem to
Tomorrow You. It's amazing how revelatory a
simple walk around the block can be.

159



The career-changing art of reading
the docs
Even if you don’t have any aspirations to build
a public following, there is tremendous career
value in becoming the go-to person within your
technical niche.

The person who everybody on your team
comes to with their toughest question about
that language or framework. The person who
knows where all the bodies are buried in
ActiveDirectory or Typescript or DynamoDB.
Those folks have great careers and job
security because authoritative knowledge like
that is rare.

To some extent, it’s rare because wisdom only
comes with experience. But I know plenty of
engineers who’ve sat in the same chair for ten
years getting the same year of experience ten
times. Heck, I’ve been there myself; I spent a
couple of years as an “accidental DBA” who
never really learned that much about SQL
Server beyond what the daily firefighting
required.

I used to spend a lot of time wondering how
other people seemed to level up so quickly on

160



new technologies. How do you break through
that stagnant cycle of learning and forgetting
stuff in bits and pieces, using the same
technology for years without ever feeling like
an expert?

A few years ago I learned a secret for doing
this, a cheat code if you will, from my friend
and AWS Hero Jared Short. This is his secret
recipe for leveling up in tech:

Read the documentation for one
job-relevant technology, cover-to-cover,
every week.

161



Reading docs: the wrong way and the
right way
I get it, that doesn’t sound revolutionary.
“RTFM” is literally as old as computing itself.
It’s the classic kiss-off answer to questions you
ought to be able to Google.

And that betrays a key limitation in how a lot of
us think about documentation. We think of it

162



tactically, as a resource to query when we have
a specific question or encounter a particular
error. We use docs to fill in our known
unknowns.

That’s how you can get stuck for years, say,
administering a PostgreSQL cluster and never
really becoming that deep of an expert on
Postgres. If you only learn something new
when the situation demands it, your mental
model of Postgres (or whatever) will look like a
gradually expanding version of this:

Over time, as you encounter more new use
cases for the technology, you’ll burn more

163



“never forget” bubbles into the mental model.
But you’ll still have this heavy sense of
unknown unknowns hanging over you, and
you’ll never be sure if you’re really using the
optimal approach to solve a new problem.

Instead, Jared’s approach is to read docs
strategically, preemptively, curiously: as a way
to fill in your unknown unknowns. The things
you might not encounter in ten years, but that
would cost you two days of troubleshooting if
you ran into them tomorrow.

Read docs like novels (cover to cover), not like
dictionaries (look up the term, cross-reference,
and stop). Over time, that strategy will lead to a
mental model of your professional domain that
looks more like this:

164



(This is the same benefit you get from studying
for certifications, by the way: you’re building a
mental map of the domain, so you don’t have
to stumble through the darkness on every new
quest.)

On the surface, that sounds simple, but it’s far
from easy. Here are three common objections
people raise when I advise reading docs as a
career-advancement strategy:

“I don’t have a photographic memory. I’ll
never remember a bunch of random docs.”

Back when I was in college, a well-meaning
friend convinced me I should read a book on
SAP. Forget today — I couldn’t have told you a

165



single thing about SAP ten minutes after
finishing that book. I’d never been inside an
enterprise, much less understood the problems
these ERP integrations I was reading about
were supposed to solve. It was like trying to
talk to the aliens in the movie Arrival: my brain
was the wrong shape.

Likewise, you probably won’t get much value
out of glancing through docs for a technology
you don’t use and have no context for.

So do these two things:

1. Focus on docs for technologies you are
already using. We’ve all had that
mind-numbing feeling when plowing through
some esoteric text that doesn’t relate to our
daily lives, where you glaze over for three
pages and then go, “what did I just read?”

Avoid this by focusing on docs for technologies
or languages you’ve already got a vested stake
in – say, because they’re on your plate at work
or you’re trying to build them into a side
project.

166



Encourage active reading and engagement
with the information by asking yourself
questions like these as you read:

● Did I understand that? (If not, maybe
read the section again)

● Does what I just read match my existing
mental model of how this technology
works? (If not, do I need to go review a
different doc and then come back to
this?)

● Could this feature or fact help me on my
current project?

● If I had known this six months ago, what
would I have done differently? (“Chosen
a different technology” is a totally
acceptable answer!)

Then, 2. Read those docs repeatedly, on a
schedule, over and over. Seriously. If you’re
on a team that’s building out centralized CI/CD
for AWS, maybe read the part of the AWS
CodeSuite docs on CodePipeline this week
and the part on CodeBuild next week, and
when you get to the end, start over. The cloud
changes fast. You’ll fold in new information at
the same time you’re reinforcing the old.

167



“I don’t have time to read a bunch of
documentation.”

Yes, and weeks of work can save you hours of
planning. Maybe use some of the time you
currently spend injecting “HERE” print
statements into your code to figure out why it’s
not working.

More seriously, it’s not a bad idea to block a bit
of time on your calendar each day – 30
minutes, even – for targeted doc-reading. You
may find it hard to carve that time out of your
workday, but defending time and setting
expectations with your manager is its own skill,
worth practicing. Call the block of time “deep
work.” It is.

168



“The docs for [technology X] are no good.
Trust me, they’re not worth reading.”

I don’t always buy this excuse. The docs might
not be that bad; you might just have the wrong
expectations.

For example, the AWS documentation gets a
terrible rap for being wordy and
poorly-organized. And it’s maybe even worse
than you’ve heard – if you’re trying to look up
the name of an IAM action or the syntax of a
CLI command, that is.

But as an educational tool that dives deep on
the architectural underpinnings and technical
limitations of services, the AWS docs are
fantastic. They’re better than any book you
could ever buy about the cloud. (And the
Builder’s Library is better still.) The AWS docs
are designed not just to be referenced, but to
be read. Read ’em!

On the other hand, some types of docs like
step-by-step tutorials are very much designed
to be referenced during hands-on builder time.
It may not make sense to spend a lot of time
reading those in the abstract. So bring your
common sense.

169



However, there are also plenty of technologies
out there where the docs are truly incomplete,
out of date, or just plain wrong – many smaller
open-source projects, in particular.

Turns out you have another option here, at
least for OSS projects: read the source code.
Not sure what a module does, what its edge
cases are, what the error code means? Read
the source code and find out! It might be faster
than (and will definitely be at least as accurate
as) looking for the answer in the docs, even if
the docs are pretty good.

If you write code for a living, reading other
people’s shipped, battle-tested code — not just
PRs from your own team — is genuinely one of
the most transformative things you can do for
your career. Because while you’re answering
your immediate question, you’ll also be picking
up style, organization, and technique from
professional programmers operating under all
kinds of interesting constraints. Seriously. Read
code.

(And then, if it’s open-source, maybe consider
contributing some docs!)

170



What do I get out of all this?
If you read a targeted set of docs consistently
over a sustained period — say, a couple of
years — while actively practicing on that
technology, you will be able to perform magic.
That’s a promise.

Let’s go back to Jared Short again for an
example. (Yes, I checked with Jared, he
graciously agreed to let me spill his secrets in
this piece.) As an engineer at an AWS shop,
Jared …

● Reads the documentation for one AWS
service, cover to cover, every week.

● Blocks daily time for this on his
calendar.

● Focuses on services he’s actually using
at work (he tells me that so far in 2021,
he’s been through all the docs for
Lambda, AppSync, and Step Functions).

Jared’s been doing this week in, week out, for
*years*. And that unglamorous commitment
lets him perform nerd magic like this:

171



If you don’t want to take the time to read that
whole Twitter thread, let me sum it up for you.

1. An experienced AWS engineer
encounters a weird behavior: AWS
Lambda seems to be executing code
when it should not be. He posts a plea
for help on Twitter.

2. Other experienced engineers take a
look and go, “huh. Weird.” To be clear,
this is not a case of RTFM. The problem
is nontrivial and the solution, if there is
one, is not well-known. Somebody starts
tagging in AWS employees for advice.

3. Jared waltzes in and immediately
suggests an answer: Lambda is tripping

172



an error during its startup sequence and
resetting the execution environment.
Jared guesses this even though he’s
never encountered that specific
situation, because he has internalized a
passing reference in the docs for
Lambda Extensions – a totally different
feature – and intuited that the underlying
behavior must be the same.

4. AWS employees confirm that Jared is
right.

5. The legend of Jared grows slightly
bigger. Guess who’s gonna get tagged
instead of the AWS employees next time
there’s a weird Lambda problem?

That’s how you become an AWS Hero, folks.
Or at least a hero on your engineering team.
It’s how you level up, get known, get paid, get
promoted.

Don’t wait for knowledge to find you through
years of inefficient trial and error. Go get it. And
the most convenient, comprehensive place to
grab it was there in front of you all along.

Read the docs.

173



Mapping your path to a cloud job

I find there are two main categories of people
who read this book:

● People with no professional technical
background at all

● People who have worked in some older
form of IT, but have little or no
experience with cloud technologies

While the challenges in this book can be a
great advantage that set you apart from other
job candidates, you have to know how to place
them in the context of your existing experience,
and how to fill in the other gaps hiring
managers may be interested in.

Getting hired without tech experience
For hiring managers, real-world experience
trumps everything. Certification, formal
education, side projects -- they all have value,
but someone who's Done It Before and gotten
paid for it will always have the upper hand in
an interview.

174



Don't be discouraged, though. You can
absolutely compete and win junior-level cloud
jobs without previous IT experience. The Cloud
Resume Challenge is your ace in the hole
here. Remember, what you're building is real,
and it's complex enough that many of those
"experienced" people - even, in some cases,
the hiring managers themselves! -- have never
done anything like it.

You will, however, likely need a bit broader and
deeper background to really pass a cloud
interview.

How long will it take me to get
hired after completing the
Cloud Resume Challenge?

175



One to twelve months is the average from
career-changers I've heard from; however,
this is a biased metric that probably
self-selects for success. The odds of getting
hired will greatly increase if you work on all
elements of the "skill stack" shown in this
section.

Check out the detailed post by this Redditor
who breaks down all the certs, projects, and
skills they worked on over a six-month period
before getting hired into a $70k/year job. One
interesting feature you may note in that
timeline: they didn't attempt the Cloud
Resume Challenge until fairly late in the
six-month window, getting hired about 1.5
months later. In the comment section, this
person confirmed that they held off on the
challenge for so long because they just didn't
feel ready for it yet -- and this is totally valid.

Building your skill stack
I encourage aspiring cloud engineers to build a
"skill stack" that looks like the following:

176



Cloud is the latest in a long line of IT
paradigms. But though it’s highly in demand,
“cloud” isn’t exactly a skill on its own. Hiring
managers are going to want to see that you
have knowledge in several foundational areas.

Code
You must be able to write basic scripts. I
recommend Python as a programming
language to learn — it’s used on cloud teams
the world over. You don’t need to be a rock star
at algorithms and data structures, but you

177



should know how to manipulate data objects
and interact with cloud services.

Networking
You will be expected to have solid familiarity
with how the internet works. DNS, TCP/IP, and
certificates — these protocols will rule your life
in the cloud, where everything is made up of
services talking to each other over a network.

Linux
Linux is just as relevant in the cloud as it was
in old-school sysadmin jobs. Know how to
navigate the Linux filesystem, use Vim and
terminal commands, and a bit about
containerization.

The friends of the Cloud Resume Challenge
behind Learn To Cloud have lots of resources
to help you dig deeper into each of these
areas.

When to apply
Once you have built a hands-on project that
touches each of the basics listed above, I
would say go ahead and start applying for
associate-level cloud support and engineering
roles. You should continue to improve your
skills and level up your resume during this

178



process by studying for a professional- or
specialty-level certification on your chosen
cloud, like the GCP Professional Architect. It’s
okay if you haven’t taken the exam yet; hiring
managers like to see that you are
self-motivated and keep learning on your own.

It may feel uncomfortable to start interviewing
at this stage, and you may encounter some
early rejection. But the weaknesses these
interviews expose will help you keep a short
feedback loop to go back and polish up those
key coding, Linux, and networking skills.

Plus, now that you’ve been through the
foundational study process, you’ll have a better
sense of where you might want to specialize,
and why. You can share that information in an
interview – along with the war stories you
picked up from your portfolio projects.

Will the transition to your first cloud job take a
lot of work? Quite possibly. You can expect to
spend some late nights at the kitchen table and
some time down frustrating rabbit holes on
StackOverflow. But a few months of dedication
here is going to pay lucrative dividends down
the road.

179



Because if you study smart and build your skill
stack the way I’m showing you, you won’t have
to spam out thousands of resumes and wonder
why nobody’s calling you back, no matter how
many certifications you’ve lined up. The right
combination of certs and hands-on builder
experience will stand out among the crowd,
and that’s the fastest way to get ahead in the
cloud.

Getting hired with IT experience, but
no cloud experience
Often, when I give presentations about the
Cloud Resume Challenge, I tend to focus on
the stories of people who used it to find their
way into cloud jobs from completely different
careers, like plumbing or HR. That's because
these stories are surprising!

But inevitably, after those talks people tell me:
"I want to get into cloud too, but I have 15
years of experience in IT. Can the challenge
work for me?"

Absolutely, it can.

Remember, almost 40% of people who
undertake the challenge have more than 3
years of professional IT experience. So it can

180



still be a valuable addition to your resume even
if you're not brand new to the industry.

That said, you'll have different challenges - and
different advantages - landing a cloud
engineering role as a mid-career IT admin or
software developer compared to someone
who's just starting out.

Exploiting your "unfair advantage"
In the startup world, venture capitalists like to
talk about finding your "unfair advantage".
What is the thing you do better than anybody
else, the thing nobody can compete with?

If you already work in some form of tech, your
unfair advantage in finding a cloud job may
simply be that you already work in tech. You
have more connections and more situational
awareness. IT is in your blood.

Most importantly, you may have opportunities
to get hands-on with cloud at your current
work. Is your team doing a migration project
that requires somebody to know a little bit
about EC2 or VPC? Are you an integration
engineer with opportunities to run some scripts
in the cloud? Push yourself, get outside your
comfort zone, and build your resume.

181



I suggest a three-step process for converting
an existing skill to cloud:

1. Build the thing you know.

Let's say you're a SQL Server DBA, like I used
to be. Great! Stand up a SQL Server on an
EC2 instance. You can do this completely by
hand; just ClickOps your way through it in the
AWS console. Your main goal here is the what,
not the how: to end up with a running server
that executes queries and connects over the
same ports you're used to seeing in the old
data center. Cloud's not so different after all!

2. Automate the thing.

Now you want to stand up that server again,
but do it the DevOps way. Instead of manual
clicking in the console, create a Terraform
config to manage your EC2 instance. Bake an
AMI that includes your SQL Server. Add some
user data automation to get the server standing
up the way you want. And throw in a little
CI/CD pipeline, just like in the Cloud Resume
Challenge, to make sure you're getting that
config from your laptop to the cloud the same

182



way every time. When the end result of step 2
looks like the end of Step 1 …

3. Convert the thing to managed
services.

Now's when you can start looking around the
cloud and expanding the circumference of what
you already know to things the cloud does a
little differently. Hey, instead of rolling your own
EC2 instance, what would it be like to use the
managed RDS version of SQL Server? What's
this "Amazon Aurora" thing? You can ask
comparative questions that draw on your own
experience:

● Where am I giving up control in
exchange for lower operations burden?

● What features am I used to that may not
be available in this managed service?

● How fast does this service run? If it
seems to respond a lot slower than the
applications I used to run in the data
center, why is that, and is there a fix?

But be realistic about this. If the cloud
experience you're looking for can't be had in
your current role, don't hang around forever
waiting for it. It may make sense to start

183



looking for a new position that may not have
the fancy "Cloud Architect" title, but will let you
get hands-on with AWS in some capacity. The
type of role where previous cloud experience is
a "nice-to-have", not a "must-have".

The Cloud Resume Challenge may be a nice
assist in helping you stand out for that role - it
could be your "unfair advantage" at a crucial
moment in your career.

Avoiding a temporary step back
One challenge of revamping your skill set for
cloud: you may find that many of the
opportunities you get as a junior cloud
engineer are a financial step backwards from
what you were making in a less future-proof,
but more senior role.

Depending on what you're doing right now, it
may be difficult to find a cloud-related role that
pays what you need. It's a hard sell to go from
senior sysadmin to junior cloud engineer.
That's why I'm recommending that you try to
build cloud skills on the job, rather than starting
from scratch.

It's also true that, due to the explosion of
remote work combined with the huge demand

184



for cloud talent, more and more companies are
opening up to the idea of hiring consultants for
cloud project work. Startups are especially
noted for doing this, usually with low friction
and a high degree of autonomy.

You may also choose to take a "stepping
stone" role, somewhere in between your
current IT job and a true cloud engineering
position, that lets you use your existing skill set
while getting closer to cloud. I've listed several
ideas for "stepping stone" roles in this video.

185



How to effectively interview for
work with a portfolio site
a guest essay by Corey Quinn

If you've taken the Cloud Resume Challenge,
it's reasonable to assume that you're looking to
start a career in the world of cloud computing.
Congratulations or condolences, to your
preference.

There’s a good chance that in hopes of snaring
your next great job, you’ve built a portfolio
website on top of AWS to show off your cloud
computing prowess. Unfortunately, the
interview process isn’t as easy as saying,
"Here's the site I built, where's my desk?"

Instead, let’s explore how to talk about the site
you've built in ways that answer the questions
your interviewer has, but likely isn't going to do
a great job of articulating.

The three questions interviewers
ultimately want you to answer
Every job interview you ever have distills down
to three questions, asked in a variety of ways.
They come down to your ability, drive, and

186



compatibility. Cast the questions your
interviewer asks through the lens of these
high-level questions, and you'll understand
where the employer is coming from a lot better.

1. Can you do the job?
Are you crap at computers?

Do you have the raw technical skills needed to
do the job? Do you have experience working at
similar points of scale? Are you current with the
technologies we work with / can become so in
a reasonable timeframe?

The hiring manager absolutely needs to have
confidence that you can get the job done. It
doesn’t matter how much they like you, how
convenient it would be to hire someone
immediately, or how impressive your resume is
if you’re fundamentally incapable of doing the
job that they need done.

2. Will you do the job?
Are you going to rage quit in a month?

Is the role aligned with your interests, or are
you likely to job-hop six weeks in and leave the
employer back at square one? Will you be
happy in the role, or will you hate large parts of

187



it and constantly try to avoid them? Does the
job align with your future plans?

Hiring people is expensive. Once they start, it’s
even more expensive because now other staff
needs to devote time and energy to bringing
the new hire up to speed. If you’re going to quit
before the company has the chance to realize
that investment, you’re not a solution, you’re an
expensive problem.

3. Can we stand working with you?
Are you a jerk?

Are you going to pick fights with colleagues?
Are you going to interrupt people when they’re
explaining things? Are you going to presume
that your coworkers are fools?

If you're amazing at the role but can't
collaborate with other people for more than
four hours before they threaten to quit, you're
not a hire that any reasonable company is
willing to make.

How to show off your portfolio site
during interviews
The Cloud Resume Challenge was posted in
2020 and continues to be a popular structure

188



for folks new to cloud to demonstrate their
skills. The challenge outlines requirements for
cloud career hopefuls to go through the
process of building a blog on top of AWS and
creating a blog post. This includes:

● Passing the entry-level Cloud
Practitioner certification.

● Creating an HTML version of your
résumé.

● Styling with CSS.
● Hosting on S3.
● Configuring DNS correctly to get TLS

working
● Enabling a counter with Javascript that

stores its data inside of a database.
● Building an API in Python for the

previous two things to communicate.
● Testing for the aforementioned Python.
● Making sure all of this lives in GitHub,

via "Infrastructure as Code."
● Putting in place CI/CD for both the

frontend stuff as well as the backend.
● Above all else, writing the blog post!

If it wasn’t clear, this is a lot of stuff.

It touches basically everything under the sun in
terms of cloud skills. It requires research and

189



asking for help. In the process, you’ll discover
some aspects that naturally align with how you
think while other stuff remains a mystery to
you.

In the context of an interview, if you say
building this site was all easy, absolutely
nobody will believe you. Be prepared to talk
about what parts were easy for you, which
parts were challenging, and why you made the
choices that you did. Be prepared to pull up
different sections of the code you wrote (this is
part of the reason to keep it in GitHub—easy
demonstrations mid-interview!) and show the
parts you're particularly proud of. Be prepared
to explain any aspect of your code in terms of
why it works the way that it does.

Let me underscore the importance of being
prepared. It may take you a minute or two to
come back up to speed if it's been a few weeks
or months since you built your portfolio. Most of
us see code we wrote six months ago as
having been written by a stranger.

Talk through your thought process during the
interview. You want to show the interviewer
how you think.

190



Reminder: Interviews are two-way
streets
If your interviewer makes comments along the
lines of "that doesn't seem hard to me" or is
otherwise dismissive of your portfolio, it's a red
flag.

Someone who's universally good at everything
contained within the Cloud Resume Challenge
is an incredible rarity. Prospective employers
who don't recognize that are likely to have
incredibly unreasonable expectations for their
staff. I'm pretty good with the cloud stuff myself,
but the JavaScript, CSS, and testing portions
are all things I'd struggle with if I personally did
the challenge.

I absolutely understand being in the position of
"I need a job, any job." I spent a lot of time
there myself in my early career days! But if you
have the luxury of being picky, the first thing I'd
veto is obnoxious managers and
colleagues—especially those who
underestimate the work and workload. The job
and its managers should be as good a fit for
you as you are for them.

Remember those three questions an
interviewer is trying to figure out the answers

191



to? You need to find your own answers to
them, too.

1. Can I do the job?
2. Will I do the job?
3. Can I stand working with you?

If the answer to any of these is “no,” you
should think long and hard before accepting
the job.

Tech takes a backseat to company
culture and learning
A lot of folks are very picky about what
technologies they'll work with. I get it! If I were
taking a cloud job, I'd be far less useful in a
shop that used Azure than I would one that
used AWS. But I'll put even that preference in
the backseat compared to how I'd consider
working somewhere that didn't treat people like
human beings.

Technologies come, and technologies go. The
danger in tying your identity so closely to a
particular stack is that when the technology
starts to be supplanted in the market, you're
more likely to dig in your heels and resist the
change.

192



It happens to all of us. I started my technical
career as a large-scale email systems
administrator. The SaaS wave started
supplanting email because most companies
don't need a dedicated on-site email admin
when they're using Gmail or Microsoft 365 to
serve their email needs. It was apparent that
this wasn't going to be something I could coast
on for the next four decades, so it was time to
improve my core skillset and embrace
something else. I focused on configuration
management for a time, using tools like Puppet
and SaltStack—and then it happened again.
Containerization and "immutable
infrastructure," particularly infrastructure as
code, changed that particular landscape.

These days I focus on cloud, specifically AWS.
If AWS starts losing market share and mind
share, it'll be time for me to once again shift to
embrace whatever the market is doing.

One thing about technology that stands in stark
contrast to many other professions such as
accounting, law, civil engineering, and many
more: Today's "state of the art" is tomorrow's
"how legacy companies do things." You'll be
forced to learn new things and experiment
wildly as you evolve your career, and so will

193



the companies you work for. That's going to be
something you need to take to heart, lest you
wind up with 10 years of experience that's
really just one year that you repeated 10 times.
"Evolve or die, dinosaur," is the way this
industry works.

194



Networking your way to a job

I have hired many people over my 10+ years in
technology, and helped others transition into
their first tech jobs through the 26-month life of
the Cloud Resume Challenge. In all that time,
the worst way to find a cloud job that I have
seen is by playing a game I call Resume
Roulette.

Resume Roulette: a losing game
Resume Roulette is easy to play but very hard
to win. Here are the rules:

1. Wait for random companies to post
public job listings

2. Spam out a bunch of applications
3. Hope that some stranger likes your

resume enough to set up an interview
4. If you don’t strike it lucky, repeat steps

1-3 indefinitely until you get hired or
burn out

Do people get hired by doing this? Sure, every
day. You can find inspiring stories on LinkedIn
of people who sent out 190 job applications,
got 10 interviews and 1 job offer. But far more

195



get discouraged and give up long before then. I
know I would.

In fact, when I do hear of someone beating the
odds and getting hired after sending out
hundreds of cold resumes, I don’t think “Wow,
that’s great perseverance” (although it certainly
is) — I think “We are celebrating a broken
process.”

How hiring happens
Let me tell you what happens inside most
companies when they list a public job posting:

1. 150 random people submit their
resumes, some of which are pretty good
and some of which are pretty bad. Hard
to say without really digging in.

2. Three current employees know
somebody who would be great in the
role, and they submit referrals with a
glowing recommendation: “I worked with
her at Company X! She would kill at
this!”

If you’re a recruiter (or especially a
time-strapped hiring manager), which resumes
are you going to move to the top of the pile?

196



Many companies offer referral bonuses to their
employees for exactly this reason: the best hire
is often someone your existing team already
knows. And it’s much more efficient to vet
those people than to do a phone screen with
150 total unknowns.

(Yes, there are a few companies out there, the
Googles of the world, that have such a
massive recruitment engine that they can
reliably crank through hundreds of thousands
of unsolicited resumes every year. But you’re
fighting a numbers game there as much as
anywhere else – you’re just more likely to get a
formal rejection, rather than having your
application sit ignored for six months.)

Network Bets: a better game
But that doesn’t mean you’re stuck on the
outside looking in. You should not have to send
out 190 job applications to get a cloud job.
There is MASSIVE demand for qualified
professionals in this field! If you know your
stuff, companies should be basically coming to
you.

But to come to you, they have to know about
you!

197



So in my experience, the BEST way to get a
cloud engineering job is to play a different
game, one we might call Network Bets, a game
with many ways to win but just two rules:

1. Own your credibility
2. Build connections

Owning your credibility
I covered foundational cloud skills in more
detail above, so I won’t reiterate everything
here, but if you’re brand-new to cloud you need
to make sure you have:

● A solid ability to write code in Python or
another common back-end language

● Hands-on familiarity with Linux and
network fundamentals

● A foundational cloud certification or two

If you don’t get your feet under you here,
you’re just going to be demoralized coming out
of interviews. I don’t want you to be
demoralized! I want you to skip to the head of
the line.

Getting proficient at code, networks, and Linux
(not a rockstar! Just the basics!) is your cheat

198



code. Seriously. Do it. You can get there faster
than you think. Projects help.

Building connections
Yes, this is the part where we talk about
networking. No, not about getting your CCNA,
I’m talking about knowing the right people to
work with.
I’ve noticed that a lot of engineers tend to
bristle when faced with the idea that they might
have to network in order to land a good job:
“My skills should stand on their own. My career
shouldn’t depend on having connections; that’s
not fair.”

But what they are missing is that connections
go both ways. You are more than just an
interchangeable YAML-generation unit. You are
a person with likes and dislikes and personality
quirks of your own. There are tech jobs out
there that would be toxic for you, where you
would not be happy or productive — and plenty
more where the work itself simply isn’t
interesting or beneficial to your future career.

And when you fling random job applications
into companies you know nothing about, you
face the very real possibility that even if you do

199



win the lottery and get hired, it’ll be on a team
that is nothing but bad news.

Networking is your chance to vet the job
market at the same time they are vetting you. It
lets you figure out the good people to work
with, at companies where you will fit in and be
set up for success.

But I’m an introvert … I can’t
network!
I’m an introvert too! In fact, I’d venture to guess
the majority of people in technology are. The
amazing thing about building public credibility
in tech is that you don’t have to go around
glad-handing, passing out business cards or
whatever. (Not that that would even work!)

As AWS Hero and fellow introvert Alex DeBrie
points out, the internet lets you connect with
people very effectively through less draining,
more asynchronous means.

As long as you are demonstrating passion for
your skills in public, you’ll find yourself
encountering great people and opportunities.

So let’s run through three practical ways to
make that happen. Here are my cheat codes

200



for networking your way to a cloud job that will
actually be good for you and your career:

1. Find a new niche
If you’re new to the cloud, you stand an
obvious disadvantage against more
experienced people. Many people try to close
this gap with certifications, but the most
common entry-level credentials are not that
impressive to hiring managers. (You have an
A+ cert? Cool, so do 100 million other people!)

So the smart move is to stop playing the game
everyone else is playing — to skip to the head
of the line and get good at cloud services that
are so new, nobody has that much experience
in them. After all, nobody can ask for 5 years of
experience in a technology that’s only existed
for 18 months.

I’m not talking about becoming an expert in a
huge, broad area like the entire Kubernetes
ecosystem. You can find a niche here that is
really specific. Here is a list of some hot cloud
tools and services that are in desperate need
of more community attention. There are many,
many others; this is just what I could write
down in 60 seconds.

201



1. AWS AppSync/Amplify (managed
GraphQL gateway and associated
front-end framework)

2. The AWS Code* stack (CodeBuild,
CodeDeploy, CodePipeline)

3. Serverless workflow services (AWS
Step Functions, Azure Logic Apps)

4. A managed Kubernetes service like
GKE, AKS or EKS

5. Popular Infrastructure as Code tools like
Terraform or the AWS CDK

If you get good at any one of these 5 things,
you are guaranteed to make some interesting
friends and raise your profile as a cloud
technologist, as long as you also …

2. Plug into the community
As you start getting hands-on with your chosen
technology, write about what you are learning. I
suggest using an established developer
blogging platform with some built-in network
effects, like Hashnode or dev.to. For example,
if the service you are learning about releases a
new feature, write up a short exploration of
what it does and why you are excited about it.

Then, SHARE those good vibes! And tag the
creators of the feature you are excited about.

202



Devs love to see their good work recognized,
and they will welcome you with open arms.

You will also start to discover Slack and
Discord channels, Twitter hashtags, etc, that
your chosen community rallies around. Engage
with these outlets and note who the influencers
are — the people you would want to be your
mentors if you knew them.

I highly recommend joining Twitter and
following key influencers in your niche. Engage
with them, reply to their tweets with questions.
People remember people who engage with
them positively and helpfully. And you’ll start to
branch out into other connections as well.

Then, when you see a job opportunity pop up
inside that community (which is guaranteed to
happen)…

3. Ask for referrals
This feels really uncomfortable at first, but it’s
way easier than it seems. You can literally just
message people who work at the company you
are interested in and politely ask for a referral
for the open job position. Without pestering,
you could even ask if they have any openings

203



that are not publicly listed. The worst they can
do is say no.

But remember – they’re likely incentivized by
their company to say yes. And they’re much
more likely to give you that boost if you’ve
interacted with them by building and sharing
work in their space in the past. If you’ve
blogged or built open-source projects, they can
pass that along to their internal recruiters. And
familiarity with them gives you a shared basis
of trust to know if this role and company would
really be a good fit for you.

I'd also be remiss not to recommend The
Coding Career Handbook, written by ex-AWS
and Netlify developer (and friend of the
challenge) Shawn "swyx" Wang. His book goes
into much more detail about how to play and
win the online networking game.

Play the long game – it’s a shortcut
Landing a job through the Network Bets
process — nailing down the fundamentals,
finding a cloud niche, and getting plugged into
the community — is not necessarily fast. It
could take six months to a year or more. But
that’s a lot faster than getting a college degree.
Plus, you can do it very cheaply and in your

204



spare time – while building connections that
ultimately will pay off for decades to come.

On the contrary, Resume Roulette has no
barrier to entry, but is a bad game because it
has so many poor outcomes:

1. You compete with everyone else on the
job market, decreasing your chances of
getting hired

2. You go months or years without getting
hired, and you get so disillusioned that
you stop searching

3. You actually *do* get hired, but in a job
that’s not a good fit for you

So be active, not passive. Own your credibility.
And create a niche for yourself, don’t wait for
the perfect opportunity to open up. That’s the
best way to find a cloud job that becomes the
foundation for an awesome career.

205



Afterword: The side project
that made the front page
​​We've talked a lot in this book about the value
of cloud projects, both as a way to get hired
and for ongoing professional development.

But not too many cloud side projects end up
creating front-page news.

The “CPS [Chicago Public Schools] dad” in
that linked article is Cloud Resume Champion
Jakob Ondrey, who we've already met in this
book as our Chunk 2 case study. He needed a
little extra push to make the career transition to
cloud after completing the Cloud Resume
Challenge, so while still working in the
infectious disease lab at Chicago’s Lurie
Children’s Hospital he decided to take on the
COVID case count dashboard project I created
at ACG. Instead of using the default US case
numbers, Jakob scoped his project to focus on
data reported by his local schools.

Jakob landed a DevOps engineer job in 2021
on the strength of his project portfolio, but still
maintains his dashboard of CPS COVID cases.
When the calendar flipped over to 2022, he

206



noticed something strange: the numbers
stopped adding up.

Source: CPS Covid Twitter

Up until January 2022, the daily COVID cases
reported by the school system (blue line) had
tracked the overall cases reported in the district
(red line) more or less exactly. But right around
the turn of the new year, the lines diverged: the
district cases shot way up in the midst of
Chicago's Omicron wave, while reported
school cases actually went down.

This didn't seem right. And it wasn't.

Jakob did a deep dive into the data and
concluded that the Chicago school system had

207



intentionally changed their reporting methods
to undercount school-related COVID cases —
right in the midst of an acrimonious fight with
the teacher’s union over in-person learning.

He brought receipts to Twitter in a thread that
quickly went viral, leading to national coverage,
calls for investigation from city alderpeople,
and a couple of suspiciously timed school
administrator resignations.  While the school
system claims they weren’t being intentionally
misleading, they can’t argue with his data - and
they can't mislead parents anymore, because
every news outlet in Chicago ran screenshots
from Jakob's dashboard.

Anatomy of the perfect cloud
project
I’m shouting out this story for two reasons: 1)
because Jakob is awesome and I’m really
impressed by the work he’s doing, and 2)
because his COVID dashboard is, like, the
platonic ideal of how to do a cloud side project.
Think about it:

He made something useful

208



It helped that he started with the ACG
challenge prompt, which was built around
widely-applicable ETL (extract, transform, load)
concepts - half of every cloud team's work can
be summed up as "take some data from here,
munge it into some other format, and then
store it over there". He didn’t content himself
with a “hello world” tutorial; he dug deep
enough into cloud services to ship an actual
application, something with a defensible
purpose in the world.

He made it his own

But Jakob didn’t just follow the prompt to the
letter. He used it as inspiration to build
something that was relevant to him as a
Chicago dad: a case tracker for the local
schools. This gives the project a unique reason
to exist, and also gave him motivation to keep
up with it over time. It took almost a year after
the dashboard went live for him to catch the
issue that catapulted him into the headlines.
Who would nurture a side project that long, and
pay such close attention to it, if it wasn’t
personally meaningful?

Plus, he leveraged his domain expertise
outside cloud; I’m not sure exactly how much

209



of his previous experience working with COVID
in the hospital system went into making this
dashboard, but it’s clear he understands how to
work intelligently with infectious disease data.

He made it accessible

There’s nothing wrong with building a side
project that spackles over something deep in
the inner workings of a cloud provider. But
those types of projects are helpful mostly to
people who have experienced a very specific
technical pain point. Jakob built something with
a public interface that could be understood by
hiring managers, angry parents, and
obfuscating public officials alike. Long before
he ever went viral, his skills had become
undeniable.

Bottom line: this is why we need more
career-changers in cloud. A hospital
background plus cloud ability helped Jakob
discover an urgent public health issue that
nobody else had spotted. If you’re new to cloud
(or even if you’re not!), what’s your domain
expertise? How can you stack your skills to
build something useful and unique? Something
that helps others at the same time that it
advances your own career?

210



Paying it forward
You see, the door to every big career
opportunity has two sides. The outside says
"Hard work", or maybe just "Luck."

The inside says "Generosity."

Every one of us working in cloud today, senior
or junior, got started in our career because
someone took a chance. Someone believed
we could succeed. And then we busted our
tails to prove them right.

I started the Cloud Resume Challenge
because I wanted to pay forward that
generosity to others. People that didn't look like
the stereotypical software engineer.

A commercial plumber in downtown Atlanta. A
researcher in an infectious disease laboratory.
A single mom returning to the workforce. A
professional poker player. All of them brilliant,
self-motivated, fast-learning people. Every one
of them just needed that little nudge, a quick
guide, the right connection, to set them on their
way.

211



The Cloud Resume Challenge is about more
than just you and me, a writer and a reader. It's
now a community initiative that has touched
thousands of people. It's a movement.

It's about the hiring manager who realizes they
need to build an apprenticeship program to
onboard more junior engineers. The senior
engineer who mentors a challenger. The kid
who decides to leave a dead-end degree
program to build cloud skills.

And every blog post you write, every project
you share, spreads the movement a little
further.

When you support the Cloud Resume
Challenge, you help to teach the world that a
great cloud engineer can come from anywhere,
from any background. In a small way, you are
helping to build the future of this industry.

If the Cloud Resume Challenge helps you
enter a new phase of your career, don't forget
to hold the door open for those behind you.
The challenge has grown, but the spirit
remains: senior, junior, career-changer or
upskiller, we are all in this together.

212



Forrest Brazeal
July, 2022

213



Acknowledgements

My thanks to A Cloud Guru, who not only
supported the underlying mission of the
challenge by creating the spin-off "Cloud Guru
Challenges", but also graciously permitted me
to incorporate material from my ACG blog
posts in this text. Keep being awesome, cloud
gurus!

Daniel Dersch, Corey Quinn, Jennine
Townsend (times 2!), and Justin Wheeler
contributed essays or challenges to various
editions of this book. I owe you all a drink the
next time that's a thing people can do.

The entire Cloud Resume Challenge
community, now more than 4,000 strong,
assisted in the creation of this book by
responding to surveys, offering feedback on
the challenge, and creating resources that
everyone can use. Special thanks to Nana, Ian,
Stephanie, Stacy, Daniel, Jerry, and Jakob for
their featured testimonials. I'm also especially
grateful for the tireless community contributions
of Tony Morris and Lou Bichard.

214